                  of Irish parentage.

 1899. Nov. 20.   Hon. Patrick A. Collins, a member of the Society, is
                  nominated for mayor of Boston, Mass., by the
                  Democratic convention. He is an ex-member of congress
                  and ex-United States consul-general to London,
                  England.

 1899. Nov. 20.   President-General Gargan delivered an address before
                  the Charitable Irish Society in Boston, Mass., this
                  evening. His subject was, “Naval Heroes of the
                  Revolutionary War.” In the course of his address he
                  paid a tribute to the patriotic O’Briens of Machias,
                  Me., who bravely figured in that struggle.

 1899. Nov. 21.   Letter received from Henry E. Reed, Portland, Ore.,
                  state vice-president of the Society for Oregon. He
                  regrets that he has not been able to give more
                  attention to the Society, but his duties for the past
                  two years having taken him up and down the Pacific
                  coast from Alaska to the Mexican boundary, he has been
                  pressed for time. However, he has interested a number
                  of Oregon people in the Society, and requests to be
                  supplied with membership application blanks.

 1899. Nov. 26.   Dr. Stephen J. Maher, of New Haven, Conn., a member of
                  the Society, presided at a public reception in the
                  Hyperion, that city, to Lord Mayor Tallon of Dublin,
                  and Hon. John E. Redmond, M. P. Col. John G. Healy,
                  another member of the Society, opened the exercises.

 1899. Nov. 27.   An official declaration in behalf of the Society is
                  issued in Boston to-night, endorsing the project to
                  bring the remains of John Paul Jones back to this
                  country from France, where he died in 1799.

 1899. Nov. 28.   The _News and Courier_, Charleston, S. C., contains an
                  editorial to-day, speaking highly of the Society and
                  its work.

 1899. Nov. 29.   Death of Edmund Phelan, a member of the Society, at
                  his home, 32 Adams street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

 1899. Dec. 2.    Col. James Gadsden Holmes, Charleston, S. C., presents
                  the Society a copy of the “History of the Calhoun
                  Monument” in that city. This monument was erected in
                  honor of Hon. John C. Calhoun, whose father was an
                  Irishman by birth, and was dedicated April 26, 1887.

 1899. Dec. 7.    Henry Stoddard Ruggles, of Wakefield, Mass., calls the
                  Society’s attention to a work recently published by
                  the Massachusetts chapter, Daughters of the American
                  Revolution. It is entitled, “Honor Roll of
                  Massachusetts Patriots, Heretofore Unknown; being a
                  List of Men and Women who Loaned Money to the Federal
                  Government, 1777‒1779.” Among the names in this list
                  are Daniel McCarthy, Dennis Tracy, Patrick Wade, and
                  Daniel Ryan.

 1899. Dec. 12.   Hon. Jeremiah Crowley, of the Society, is reëlected
                  mayor of Lowell, Mass.

 1899. Dec. 13.   Thomas Carroll of Peabody, Mass., a member of the
                  Society, delivers an historical address at the
                  twenty-fifth anniversary celebration of St. John’s
                  Catholic parish in Peabody.

 1899. Dec. 19.   Thomas F. O’Malley, Somerville, Mass., a member of the
                  Society, delivers an historical lecture on “The
                  Colonial Irish” before the St. Peter’s Catholic
                  Association, Cambridge, Mass.

 1899. Dec. 30.   The _Boston Pilot_ of this date contains an article
                  from Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass., of the Society, on
                  “The Irish Brigade of Rochambeau’s Army,” giving an
                  account of its services in behalf of American
                  independence.

For continuation of this chronology, through the year 1900, see pages 8
to 18 of the present volume.




                       NECROLOGY OF THE SOCIETY.

The following members of the Society died during the year 1900:


                         Hon. Andrew J. White.

Born in Brooklyn, N. Y., June 5, 1845; was appointed police justice, New
York city, in 1881, by Mayor Grace; resigned in 1893 to accept the
appointment of dock commissioner from Mayor Gilroy; was a member of the
Manhattan and Democratic Clubs and of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick;
admitted to the Society Jan. 19, 1899; died Jan. 23, 1900, in New York
city.


                         Hon. William F. Reddy.

Born in Waterford, Ireland; was educated in private schools in Ireland
and England, and graduated at St. John’s University, Waterford. He came
directly from Ireland to Richmond, Va., and prepared himself there and
at the University of Virginia for the practice of law. Attained
distinction at the bar; was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates
in 1895 and 1897; was placed on important committees, including Courts
of Justice, Counties, Cities and Towns, and Officers and Offices at the
Capitol; was at one time a member of the Richmond Light Infantry Blues;
died in Richmond, Jan. 24, 1900, aged thirty-six years.


                         Rev. Michael Gilligan.

Born in Sligo, Ireland, Dec. 26, 1845; came to America with his parents
in 1847. The family settled in Salem, Mass. Michael, the subject of this
sketch, attended school there, subsequently entering St. Charles
College, Ellicott City, Md., and St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, being
ordained to the Catholic priesthood at the latter institution. In
November, 1886, he assumed charge of St. Joseph’s church, Medford,
Mass., and continued as rector until his death. He died Feb. 18, 1900,
at Norfolk, Va.


                          Eugene T. McCarthy.

Born in Peabody, Mass., Dec. 4, 1859; was graduated A. B. from Bowdoin
College, 1882; admitted to the Massachusetts bar, 1884; formed a
partnership with Henry H. Hurlburt, a prominent lawyer, at Lynn, Mass.,
1892; enjoyed a large and lucrative practice; died in Lynn, May 26,
1900.


                       William H. O’Hearn, M. D.

Born in Lawrence, Mass., about thirty years ago; was graduated from the
University of the City of New York in 1891; was also an alumnus of
Bellevue Hospital Medical College; died in his native city June 4, 1900.


                           Daniel B. Kelley.

Born in Newburyport, Mass.; was graduated from Niagara College and the
Yale Law School; opened a law office in Haverhill, Mass., and acquired
an extensive practice; died in Haverhill, June 10, 1900.


                           Michael Cavanagh.

Born in County Waterford, Ireland, about seventy-three years ago. He was
merging into manhood when the Irish rebellion of ’48 broke out, and was
actively engaged in that struggle; after the collapse, he made his
escape to the United States, where he soon after joined John O’Mahoney,
the celebrated Fenian leader; became O’Mahoney’s private secretary and
trusted adviser. He assisted in raising the Phœnix regiment and was also
an energetic assistant to Gen. Michael Corcoran in recruiting the
Corcoran Irish Legion at Camp Scott, S. I., in 1862. At the close of the
Civil War, Mr. Cavanagh enlisted in the general service of the United
States, and was employed at the war department. From the general
military service he was transferred to the civil service, where he
remained until the time of his death, a period of many years. He was on
the pension rolls of the United States army, up to his death, for
disabilities received while in the military service. He was the author
of “Memoirs of Gen. Thomas Francis Meagher” and “Sketches of Waterford
Celebrities,” and wrote many articles for the press. He died in
Washington, D. C., June 21, 1900.


                          Hon. John J. Hayes.

Born in Killarney, Ireland, in 1843; was graduated from Trinity College,
Dublin, and then entered the service of the Bank of Ireland; came to the
United States about 1863‒’64, and engaged in the importing and
commission business; was a member of the school board, Boston, Mass.,
from 1875 to 1880, and was a state senator of Massachusetts, 1885 and
1886. Two or three of his sons have been students of Harvard. He died in
Boston, July 1, 1900.


                           William H. Quinn.

Came to this country, an orphan, when but nine years of age; went to
Hallowell, Me., when twenty-three years old, locating permanently there
in 1877; became prominent in business life; served on the Hallowell
board of aldermen. “Whatever word he gave was the equal of a bond doubly
secured.” He died in Hallowell, July 11, 1900, aged fifty years.


                       Rev. Thomas W. Broderick.

Born in Willimantic, Conn., May 1, 1850; was educated at Terrebonne
College, Canada, finishing his studies in Belgium; was rector of St.
Peter’s Catholic church, Hartford, Conn., for sixteen years, until his
death in that city, Aug. 12, 1900.


                         Rev. Michael O’Brien.

Born in Ballina, County Tipperary, Ireland, May 1, 1825; completed his
classical studies at Killaloe, and took his theological course at All
Hallows College, Dublin; came to New York in 1848; affiliated with the
diocese of Buffalo, N. Y., and was ordained to the priesthood in 1849;
was made pastor of St. Patrick’s church, Rochester, N. Y., in 1854; in
1859 was made one of the vicars general of the Buffalo diocese. At the
time of his death, Aug. 28, 1900, while on a visit to Ireland, he was
rector of St. Patrick’s church, Lowell, Mass., and had been for several
years.


                            John B. Wright.

Born in Charlestown, Mass., February, 1854; began his career as a
newspaper man by gathering information for the _Charlestown Advertiser_.
Later, he was in the offices of the _Boston News_ and the _Woonsocket_
(R. I.) _Patriot_. In 1876 he joined the reportorial staff of the
_Boston Herald_, and for more than a decade faithfully and brilliantly
served that paper. Mr. Wright was one of the most expert reporters of
current events ever known in the state; became private secretary to Gov.
B. F. Butler of Massachusetts. In 1889 he became editor and part owner
of the _Gazette_, a daily paper of Haverhill, Mass., which position he
held up to the time of his death. He passed away in Haverhill, Oct. 17,
1900.


                       Michael W. Kelliher, M. D.

Born in Palmer, Mass., Feb. 20, 1864; studied for two years at the
University of Vermont; was graduated in medicine from the University of
New York in 1886; took a post-graduate course, and then located in
Pawtucket, R. I.; was appointed medical examiner for Pawtucket and
Lincoln, R. I., by Governor Davis in 1890, for a term of six years; was
elected to the Pawtucket school board for three years; was a member of
the Rhode Island Medical Society; died in Pawtucket, Oct. 31, 1900.


                     Very Rev. John E. Barry, V. G.

Born in Eastport, Me., August, 1836; educated at Holy Cross College,
Worcester, Mass., and the Grand Seminary, Montreal; ordained to the
Catholic priesthood at Portland, Me., in 1864, by Bishop Bacon; was made
pastor of the Catholics of Concord, N. H., in 1865. Under his direction
St. John’s church, that city, was built, he remaining rector of the same
until his death. He visited Europe in 1874, and was a personal attendant
of Bishop Bacon of Maine on the return voyage of that dignitary, who
died in New York soon after he reached this country. From Bishop Bacon’s
death, Nov. 5, 1874, until June, 1875, Father Barry administered the
affairs of the diocese of Portland until Bishop Healey was appointed.
Father Barry was for a number of years a member of the school board of
Concord; was three times appointed a trustee of the New Hampshire asylum
for the insane, and bore a prominent part in the advancement of the
interests of the New Hampshire Historical Society. At the time of his
death he was vicar-general of the diocese of Manchester, N. H. He was
accidentally killed by a cable car while crossing Broadway, New York
city, Nov. 14, 1900.


                          Hon. James D. Brady.

Born in Portsmouth, Va., in 1843; resided there until 1859, when he
removed to New York; entered the Union army in July, 1861, as a private;
commanded Company B of the Sixty-ninth New York Volunteers in the famous
charge of the Irish Brigade at Fredericksburg, where he was wounded.
Subsequently, he was promoted to the ranks of major and
lieutenant-colonel. After the war he returned to Virginia, and for more
than a quarter of a century took a leading part in public affairs. For
ten years he was the secretary and chairman of the Republican State
Committee, and was a delegate from Virginia to many of the National
Republican Conventions. He was representative in the Forty-ninth
Congress from the Fourth Virginia District. Later, he was appointed
collector of internal revenue for the Second Virginia District. He died
at Petersburg, Va., Nov. 30, 1900.


                           James W. O’Brien.

Born in Charlestown, Mass., in 1845; attended Mt. St. Mary’s College,
Emmitsburg, Md., and Boston University, at which latter institution he
studied law; became a member of the Charlestown city council, and of the
board of public library trustees; was nominated by Gov. B. F. Butler of
Massachusetts, in 1883, to be judge of the Charlestown district court,
but owing to the political complexion of the Governor’s council, the
nomination was not confirmed; an able lawyer and valued citizen; died in
Boston, Mass., Dec. 22, 1900.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Members of the Society who have died in other years:

  =Alley, John R.=, Boston, Mass., died in 1898.

  =Athy, Andrew=, Worcester, Mass., died in 1898.

  =Cochrane, Gen. John=, New York City, died in 1897.

  =Conner, John E.=, Chicopee, Mass., died in 1898.

  =Coveney, Col. J. W.=, Cambridge, Mass., died in 1897.

  =Cummings, Dr. William F.=, Rutland, Vt., died in 1899.

  =Donovan, Dr. Henry V.=, Lawrence, Mass., died in 1897.

  =Drum, Capt. John=, killed in action in Cuba, 1898.

  =Fay, Dr. Joseph H.=, Fall River, Mass., died in 1898.

  =Gafney, Charles B.=, Rochester, N. H., died in 1898.

  =Galvin, Hon. Owen A.=, Boston, Mass., died in 1897.

  =Grace, Rev. Philip=, Newport, R. I., died in 1898.

  =Hanley, Col. Patrick T.=, Boston, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Kelley, Joseph J.=, Cambridge, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Meade, Rear Admiral R. W.=, Philadelphia, Pa., died in 1897.

  =Pepper, Rev. George W.=, Cleveland, O., died in 1899.

  =Phelan, Edmund=, Boston, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Scannell, Rev. Denis=, Worcester, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Slattery, William=, Holyoke, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Smith, Laurence J.=, Lowell, Mass., died in 1897.

  =Sullivan, Hon. John H.=, Boston, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Thayer, Hon. Eli=, Worcester, Mass., died in 1899.

  =Tobin, Capt. John M.=, Boston, Mass., died in 1898.

  =Walsh, Hon. Patrick=, Augusta, Ga., died in 1899.




                            MEMBERSHIP ROLL,
                 AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.[60]

            [For officers of the Society see pages 5, 6, 7.]


  =Ackland, Thomas J.=, editorial department, _The Pilot_, 630
    Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Ahern, John=, 5 Highland Street, Concord, N. H.

  =Ahern, John J.=, East Cambridge, Mass.

  =Ahern, William J.=, 64 Franklin Street, Concord, N. H.; has served as
    a member of the Legislature of New Hampshire.

  =Armstrong, Col. James=, Charleston, S. C.

  =Aylward, James F.=, 347 Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Banigan, Hon. James E.=, Pawtucket, R. I., a State Senator.

  =Bannin, Michael E.=, 893 Lafayette Ave., New York City.

  =Barrett, David L.=, Englewood, N. J.

  =Barrett, Frank B.=, 46 East 20th Street, New York City.

  =Barrett, Thomas=, 10 West 90th Street, New York City.

  =Barrett, Dr. Thomas J.=, 41 Wellington Street, Worcester, Mass.;
    member State Board of Dental Registration.

  =Barry, Hon. P. T.=, 93 South Jefferson Street, Chicago, Ill.; has
    been a member of the Illinois Legislature.

  =Bell, Gen. George=, Washington, D. C.

  =Bennett, Joseph M.= (M. D.), 186 Broad Street, Providence, R. I.; a
    brother of Secretary of State Bennett of Rhode Island.

  =Betts, Rev. George C.=, Rector St. James’ Protestant Episcopal
    Church, Goshen, N. Y.

  =Birmingham, Robert M.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =Black, Thomas=, Berkley, Virginia.

  =Bodfish, Rev. Joshua P.=, Rector St. John’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Canton, Mass.

  =Boland, Michael J.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Bolton, Rev. J. Gray= (D. D.) (Presbyterian), 1906 Pine Street,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Boyle, Hon. Patrick J.=, six terms Mayor of Newport, R. I.

  =Boyle, Thomas H.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Bradley, Richard E.=, 122 Monument Street, Portland, Me.

  =Brady, Rev. Cyrus Townsend=, Protestant Episcopal Archdeacon of
    Pennsylvania, 6347 Woodbine Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Brady, Patrick=, 445 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

  =Brandon, Edward J.=, City Clerk, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Bree, Hon. James P.=, 820 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.; member of
    the Connecticut Legislature.

  =Breen, Hon. John, Lawrence=, Mass.; served three terms as Mayor of
    Lawrence.

  =Brennan, Hon. James F.=, State Library Commissioner, Peterborough, N.
    H.

  =Brennan, Michael=, 2 West 75th Street, New York City; proprietor of
    the Hotel San Remo, 74th and 75th Streets and Central Park West.

  =Brennan, Thomas S.=, 353 West 56th Street, New York City.

  =Breslin, T. J.=, Fries-Breslin Co., Camden, N. J.

  =Broderick, James A.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Broe, James A.=, 478 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Brogan, Rev. Farrah A.=, St. Vincent’s Church, South Boston, Mass.

  =Brophy, John P.= (Ph. D., LL. D.), 321 West 137th Street, New York
    City.

  =Brosnahan, Rev. Timothy=, Rector St. Mary’s Church, Waltham, Mass.

  =Bryson, John=, 677 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Buckley, Dennis T.=, 19 Bacon Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Burke, Edmund=, 377 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

  =Burke, J. E.=, Superintendent of Public Schools, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Burke, Robert E.=, recently City Solicitor, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Burke, Tobias A.=, _Argus_ office, Portland, Me.

  =Burke, William J.=, 119 Webster Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Ellery C.=, Quincy, Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Francis J.=, Brighton (Boston), Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Thomas F.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Butler, Hon. Matthew C.=, ex-U. S. Senator, Edgefield, S. C.

  =Buttimer, Thomas H.=, attorney-at-law, 27 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

  =Byrne, John=, 45 Wall Street, New York City.

  =Byrne, Michael J.=, 147 Cook Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Byrne, Very Rev. William= (V. G., D. D.), 6 Allen Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Cahill, John H.=, 15 Dey Street, New York City.

  =Cahill, M. J.=, dry goods merchant, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Callaghan, Lawrence=, manufacturer, 95 Locke Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Callahan, John A.=, School Principal, 79 Lincoln Street, Holyoke,
    Mass.

  =Callanan, E. J.=, of Marlier, Callanan & Co., 172 Tremont Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Calnin, James=, 101‒107 Lakeview Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  =Campbell, James P.=, lawyer, 20 West 70th Street, New York City.

  =Cannon, James N.=, 240 Hamilton Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Cannon, Thomas H.=, 1235 Chicago Stock Exchange Building, Chicago,
    Ill.

  =Cantwell, John J.=, Brookline, Mass.

  =Canty, T. W.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Carey, Jeremiah J.=, office the _Sunday Star_, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carmichael, James H.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Carmody, John R.=, 1220 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =Carney, Michael=, of M. Carney & Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carter, Hon. Thomas H.=, recently U. S. Senator, Helena, Mont.

  =Carroll, Edward=, Cashier Leavenworth National Bank, Leavenworth,
    Kansas.

  =Carroll, Hon. Hugh J.=, Pawtucket, R. I., ex-Member of the Rhode
    Island General Assembly; ex-Mayor of Pawtucket.

  =Carroll, James B.=, lawyer, 50 Temple Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Carroll, Thomas=, director of the Public Library, Peabody, Mass.

  =Casey, Martin=, Fort Worth, Texas.

  =Casey, Stephen J.=, lawyer, Banigan Building, Providence, R. I.

  =Casey, William J.=, Palm Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Cashman, John=, 30 Church Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Casman, John P.=, 34 Howard Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Cassidy, Patrick= (M. D.), Norwich, Conn.

  =Cassidy, Patrick J.= (M. D.), New London, Conn.

  =Cavanaugh, John B.=, 924 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Cavanaugh, Thomas Jeffrey=, 54 Stark Corporation, Manchester, N. H.

  =Chittick, Rev. J. J.=, Hyde Park, Mass.

  =Clancy, Lawrence=, Oswego, N. Y.

  =Clare, William F.=, 39 Cortlandt Street, New York City.

  =Clark, Joseph H.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Clark, Rev. James F.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Clarke, Rev. Michael=, Rector Church of the Sacred Heart, East
    Boston, Mass.

  =Clary, Charles H.=, Hallowell, Me.

  =Clifford, James=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Clune, John H.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Coakley, Daniel H.=, 77 Arlington Street, Brighton (Boston), Mass.;
    member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1892‒’94.

  =Coffey, John J.=, Neponset, Mass.

  =Coffey, Rev. Michael J.=, East Cambridge, Mass.

  =Cogan, D. S.=, 320 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Coghlan, Rev. Gerald P.=, Church of Our Lady of Mercy, Philadelphia,
    Pa.

  =Cohalan, Daniel F.=, lawyer, 271 Broadway, New York City.

  =Coleman, Bernard F.=, 38 East 69th Street, New York City.

  =Coleman, Cornelius F.=, 162‒164 Middle Street, Portland, Me.

  =Coleman, James S.=, 38 East 69th Street, New York City.

  =Collins, Rev. Charles W.=, the Cathedral, Portland, Me.

  =Collins, James M.=, 6 Sexton Avenue, South Main Street, Concord, N.
    H.

  =Collins, Hon. John S.=, Gilsum, N. H.

  =Collins, Hon. Patrick A.=, ex-Member of Congress; late United States
    Consul-General to London, England; Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Collins, Stephen J.=, 212 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Collins, Timothy J.=, _Daily Advertiser_, Quincy, Mass.

  =Collins, William D.= (M. D.), 170 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Collison, Harvey N.=, member Massachusetts Legislature, 1887‒’88; has
    also served on Boston School Board; 5 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Conaty, Bernard=, 30 Cypress Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Conaty, Rev. B. S.=, 340 Cambridge Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Conaty, Rt. Rev. Thomas J.= (D. D.), Rector of the Catholic
    University, Washington, D. C.

  =Concannon, John S.=, 19 Crystal Cove Avenue, Winthrop, Mass., or City
    Hall, Boston, Mass.

  =Condon, Edward O’Meagher=, 98 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  =Coney, Patrick H.=, attorney-at-law, Topeka, Kansas.

  =Conley, Henry=, 7 Winthrop Street, Portland, Me.

  =Conley, John E.=, 87 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.; ex-Clerk of
    the Rhode Island House of Representatives.

  =Conlin, Rev. John F.=, Webster, Mass.

  =Conlin, Michael=, 59 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Conlon, Michael=, 15 Pool Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Connellan, James A.=, 98 Exchange Street, Portland, Me.

  =Conners, Edward=, 31 Hammond Street, Bangor, Me.; has been a member
    of the Board of Aldermen, and of the Police Examining Board.

  =Connery, William P.=, Pleasant Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Connolly, James=, Coronado, Cal.

  =Connolly, Michael J.=, Trustee of the Public Library, Waltham, Mass.

  =Connolly, Rev. Arthur T.=, Rector Church of the Blessed Sacrament,
    Center and Creighton Streets, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Connolly, Richard=, 132 Boston Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Connor, J. F.=, of Connor & Tracy, Peabody, Mass.

  =Connor, John J.=, _Sunday Register_ office, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Connor, John W.=, 93 Main Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Connor, Michael=, 509 Beech Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Conroy, Philip F.=, Newport Gaslight Co., Newport, R. I.

  =Conway, James L.=, 113 Worth Street, New York City.

  =Cooke, Rev. Michael J.= (life member), Fall River, Mass.

  =Corbett, Peter B.=, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corcoran, C. J.=, City Clerk, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Corcoran, John H.=, 587 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Corcoran, Hon. John W.=, recently a Judge of the Superior Court,
    Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corr, Bernard=, Chamber of Commerce Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corrigan, J. P.= (M. D.), Benedict House, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Costello, A. E.=, 4 East 119th Street, New York City.

  =Costello, John H.=, 40 East Brookline Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Coughlin, J. A.=, Manager, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Coughlin, John=, 177 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Cox, Michael F.= (M. D., M. R. I. A.), 45 St. Stephen’s Green,
    Dublin, Ireland.

  =Cox, Michael H.=, 54 Commerce Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Coyle, Rev. James=, Taunton, Mass.

  =Crane, John=, 307 West 103d Street, New York City; member of the
    military order of the Loyal Legion; vice-president of the Society of
    the Army of the Tennessee.

  =Cranitch, William=, New York City.

  =Crimmins, Hon. John D.= (life member), 40 East 68th Street, New York
    City.

  =Crimmins, Lieut. Martin L.= (U. S. A.), care of Hon. John D.
    Crimmins, New York City, or War Department, Washington, D. C.

  =Cronin, Capt. William=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Croston, Dr. J. F.=, Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Crowell, Hon. Henry G.=, South Yarmouth, Mass.; a descendant of David
    O’Killia (O’Kelly), who settled on Cape Cod as early as 1657.

  =Crowley, Bartholomew=, manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Crowley, Hon. Jeremiah=, Mayor of Lowell, Mass.

  =Crowley, John F.=, Standard Clothing Co., Bangor, Me.

  =Cuffe, Rev. John P.=, Quincy, Mass.

  =Cullen, Rev. John S.=, Watertown, Mass.

  =Cummins, Rev. John F.=, Roslindale, Mass.

  =Cummins, Thomas J.=, 65 First Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Cummings, Matthew J.=, Overseer of the Poor, Providence, R. I.

  =Cunningham, Christopher D.=, 178 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, Francis W.=, 167 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, James=, 277 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, John E.=, Gardiner, Me.

  =Curran, Bartley J.=, 72 Exchange Street, Portland, Me.

  =Curran, James=, President the James Curran Manufacturing Co., 512‒514
    West 36th Street, New York City.

  =Curran, Maurice J.=, of the Curran & Joyce Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Curran, William F.=, 38 Fern Street, Bangor, Me.; has served several
    terms on the Board of Aldermen.

  =Curry, Capt. P. S.=, 1 Box Place, Lynn, Mass.

  =Curtin, Jeremiah=, Bristol, Vt.; author of “Hero Tales of Ireland,”
    “Myths and Folk-Lore of Ireland,” “Myths and Folk-Tales of the
    Russians, Western Slavs and Magyars,” translator of works of Henry
    Sienkiewicz.

  =Cusack, Peter=, 38 Washington Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Cushnahan, Rev. P. M.=, Rector of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Ogden City, Utah.

  =Dailey, Peter=, real estate, etc., 209 Washington Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Daly, Hon. Joseph F.=, New York City; recently Justice of the Supreme
    Court.

  =Daly, John=, South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Daly, Rev. Patrick J.=, Rector Church of St. Francis de Sales, Vernon
    Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Danaher, Hon. Franklin M.=, Albany, N. Y.; member State Board of Law
    Examiners.

  =Danahy, Rev. J. T.=, Newton Upper Falls, Mass.

  =Danvers, Robert E.=, 17 West 65th Street, New York City.

  =Dasey, Charles V.=, 7 Broad Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Davidson, John A.=, 246 West 45th Street, New York City.

  =Davis, Charles E.=, 2 Park Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Davis, Dr. F. L.=, 253 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Davis, Hon. Robert T.=, Fall River, Mass.; ex-Mayor; ex-Member of
    Congress.

  =Davis, John J.=, 145 Clinton Street, Greenville, Pa.

  =DeCourcy, Charles A.=, of DeCourcy & Coulson, lawyers, Essex Street,
    Lawrence, Mass.

  =Deeves, Richard=, Mutual Reserve Building, Broadway, New York City.

  =Delehanty, Dr. W. J.=, Trumbull Square, Worcester, Mass.

  =Delehanty, Hon. F. B.=, Judges’ Chambers, Court House, City Hall
    Park, New York City.

  =Dempsey, George C.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dempsey, Henry L.=, Stillwater, R. I.; recently Postmaster; member
    Smithfield Town Council.

  =Dempsey, Patrick=, Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dempsey, William P.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Dennison, Joseph A.=, of law firm, Coakley & Dennison, Pemberton
    Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Desmond, J. J.=, 565 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Desmond, Jeremiah J.=, Norwich, Conn.

  =Desmond, John F.=, civil engineer, 83 Merrimac Street, Haverhill,
    Mass.

  =Devine, P. A.=, 100 Central Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Devlin, James H.=, 27 Farnsworth Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dignam, M. A.= (D. D. S.), 295 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Dillon, Capt. Moses=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Dillon, Thomas J.= (M. D.), 121 Vernon Street, Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Dixon, Richard=, Equitable Life, 100 Broadway, New York City.

  =Doherty, James L.=, 131 Bowdoin Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Doherty, Philip J.=, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; lawyer; has
    served several terms in the Massachusetts Legislature; in 1886 was
    nominee for Speaker of the House.

  =Donahoe, D. J.=, of Donahoe Brothers, manufacturers, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donahoe, Dr. Florence=, 1134 Eighth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =Donahoe, Col. John P.=, Wilmington, Del.; National Commander, Union
    Veteran Legion; a member of the recent Constitutional Convention of
    the state.

  =Donahoe, Patrick=, _The Pilot_, Boston, Mass.

  =Donahue, Dan A.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Donahue, Hugh= (M. D.), 200 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Donahue, John J.=, Keene, N. H.

  =Donigan, Bernard E.=, 322 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.; formerly
    Postmaster at Orono, Me.

  =Donnellan, Col. John W.=, banker, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Donnelly, B. J.=, of Shea & Donnelly, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donnelly, Hugh J.=, 100 Central Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Donoghoe, Dr. D. F.=, 240 Maple Street, Holyoke, Mass.; member School
    Board.

  =Donovan, Daniel=, 21 High Rock Street, Lynn, Mass.; an authority on
    heraldry, armorial bearings, etc., particularly as the same relate
    to Ireland.

  =Donovan, Daniel A.=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., manufacturers, 47‒51
    Willow Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donovan, D. D.=, 202 Power Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Donovan, Col. Henry F.=, Chicago, Ill.; late Inspector-General
    Illinois National Guard; served five terms as President of the
    County Board of Education; proprietor of the _Chicago Eagle_.

  =Donovan, Dr. James A.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Donovan, Joseph=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Donovan, M. F.=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., 47‒51 Willow Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Donovan, Michael R.= (M. D.), 128 South Common Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donovan, Timothy=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., 47‒51 Willow Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Donovan, Col. William H.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Doogue, Luke J.=, East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.

  =Doogue, William=, Superintendent of public grounds, Boston, Mass.

  =Doogue, William J.=, 154 East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Doolittle, James G.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Doran, Patrick L.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Dore, John P.=, 40 Howland Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Dowd, Frederick C.=, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Dowd, James J.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Dowd, Michael=, Tacoma, Wash.

  =Dowd, Michael J.=, 31‒39 Merrimack Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dowd, Peter A.=, 95 Milk Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dowling, M. J.=, Renville, Minn.

  =Dowling, Rev. Austin=, Providence, R. I.

  =Downey, Dr. Charles J.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Downey, Daniel=, 50 Piedmont Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Doyle, Alfred L.=, 14 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, James=, 50 Front Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, John F.= (life member), 14 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, Col. John F.=, Jr., 14 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, John M.=, 14 South Third Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Driscoll, Hon. C. T.=, Mayor of New Haven, Conn.

  =Driscoll, Florence F.=, 56 Adams Street, Portland, Me.

  =Drummond, Michael J.=, 148 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =Duff, Dr. John=, 5 Dexter Row, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Duff, John=, 35 Purchase Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Duffy, Arthur E.=, 39 Ash Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Duggan, John T.= (M. D.), Worcester, Mass.

  =Dunn, Edward P.=, 12 Lincoln Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Dunn, Hon. Robert C.=, State Auditor, Capitol Building, St. Paul,
    Minn.; publisher, Princeton, Minn., _Union_.

  =Dunne, F. L.=, 328 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dunnigan, D. G.=, publisher, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Durac, Patrick H.=, Barstow, Ward County, Texas.

  =Dyer, Dr. William H.=, Dover, N. H.

  =Early, James=, Deputy Sheriff, Worcester, Mass.

  =Egan, James T.=, of the law firm, Gorman & Egan, Banigan Building,
    Providence, R. I.

  =Egan, Maurice F.= (LL. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  =Egan, Rev. M. H.=, Rector Church of the Sacred Heart, Lebanon, N. H.

  =Ellard, George W.=, 180 Lisbon Street, Lewiston, Me.

  =Elston, A. A.=, Preston Street, Somerville, Mass.

  =Emmet, Dr. J. Duncan=, 91 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Emmet, Robert=, 54 West 53d Street, New York City.

  =Emmet, Dr. Thomas Addis=, 89 Madison Avenue, New York City;
    grandnephew of Robert Emmet, the Irish patriot.

  =English, Hon. Thomas Dunn= (LL. D.), 57 State Street, Newark, N. J.;
    ex-Member of Congress.

  =Esler, Frederic B.=, Union Surety Co., Dun Building, 290 Broadway,
    New York City.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph D.=, 789 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph P.=, 170 East 121st Street, New York City.

  =Fallon, Michael F.= (M. D.), 9 Portland Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Farrell, Edward D.=, 329 West 50th Street, New York City.

  =Farrell, Henry W.= (M. D.), 1913 Westminster Street, Providence, R.
    I.

  =Farrell, John F.=, 45 Lake Avenue, Albany, N. Y.

  =Farrell, John P.=, 230 Grove Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Farrell, Joseph A.=, 598 Madison Avenue, Albany, N. Y.

  =Farrell, William=, Carnation Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Farrelly, Frank T.=, 424 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Farrelly, Patrick=, American News Co., New York City.

  =Farrelly, Stephen=, American News Co., New York City.

  =Fay, Martin=, 55 Bainbridge Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Feehan, Rev. Daniel F.=, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =Feeley, William J.=, treasurer of The W. J. Feeley Co., silversmiths
    and manufacturing jewelers, 185 Eddy Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Feenan, Bernard=, 85 Harbor Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Ferguson, Hugh=, 21 George Street, Charleston, S. C.

  =Field, Hon. John H.=, 27 High Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Finerty, Hon. John F.=, 69 Dearborn Street, Chicago, Ill.; Editor of
    _The Citizen_; ex-Member of Congress.

  =Finn, Rev. Thomas J.=, East Portchester, Conn.

  =Finnigan, James C.=, 139 Broad Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Finnigan, Patrick J.= (M. D.), 361 Cambridge Street, East Cambridge,
    Mass.

  =Finnigan, Thomas J.=, 121 Somerset Street, Bangor, Me.; member of the
    Park Commission.

  =Fitzgerald, David E.=, 179 Church Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Fitzgerald, Rev. E. J.=, Clinton, Mass.

  =Fitzgerald, Edmund P.=, 88 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Fitzgerald, Patrick J.=, 44 Nichols Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Fitzgerald, William T.=, High Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Fitzmaurice, Charles R.=, Rossland, British Columbia.

  =Fitzpatrick, Daniel E.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Fitzpatrick, Edward=, editorial department of _The Times_,
    Louisville, Ky.

  =Fitzpatrick, J. M.=, 120 West 59th Street, New York City.

  =Fitzpatrick, John B.=, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; was for
    several years an officer of the Massachusetts Supreme Court.

  =Fitzpatrick, Thomas B.=, of the wholesale dry goods firm of Brown,
    Durrell & Co., Boston, Mass.

  =Fitzpatrick, Rev. William H.=, 2221 Dorchester Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =Fitzsimons, Hon. James M.=, Chief Justice of the City Court, New
    York.

  =Fitzsimons, Thomas P.=, 1477 Broadway, New York City.

  =Flaherty, Thomas H.=, 62 Gray St., Portland, Me.

  =Flannagan, Dr. Andrew J.=, 29 George Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Flannery, Capt. John=, Savannah, Ga.; of John Flannery & Co., cotton
    factors and commission merchants.

  =Flatley, Joseph P.=, 916 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Flatley, P. J.=, lawyer, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Flatley, Rev. John=, Rector St. Peter’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Cambridge, Mass.

  =Flynn, Hon. Joseph J.=, Opera House, Lawrence, Mass., a State
    Senator.

  =Flynn, Rev. James A.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Flynn, Thomas J.=, 18‒20 Essex Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Fogarty, James A.=, New Haven, Conn.

  =Fogarty, Jeremiah W.=, assessors’ department, City Hall, Boston,
    Mass.; Secretary of the Charitable Irish Society (founded 1737).

  =Foley, Bernard=, 39 Edgewood Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Foley, Frank W.=, 284 Grand Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  =Ford, Hon. Peter J.=, 501 Rodney Street, Wilmington, Del.

  =Foy, Julius L.=, 408‒409 Continental Bank Building, St. Louis, Mo.

  =Frawley, John P.=, 73 Main Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Gaffney, T. St. John=, 41 Riverside Drive, New York City.

  =Gallagher, Cornelius J.=, 271 State Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Gallagher, Hugh T.=, 11 Birch Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Galligan, Edward F.= (M. D.), 63 Washington Street, Taunton, Mass.

  =Gallivan, Maurice=, 58 Dracut Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  =Galvin, Rev. John B.=, Rector St. Ann’s Church, Somerville, Mass.

  =Galvin, John E.=, 14 Bailey St., Dorchester, Mass.

  =Gargan, Thomas J.= (life member), ex-President Boston Charitable
    Irish Society (founded 1737); member of the law firm, Gargan &
    Keating, 30 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Garrigan, Rev. Philip J.=, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  =Garvan, Hon. Patrick=, President Park Commission, 236 Farmington
    Avenue, Hartford, Conn.

  =Garvey, Patrick J.=, lawyer, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Gavegan, Matthew=, 57 Prospect Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Gavin, Michael=, of M. Gavin & Co., wholesale grocers and cotton
    factors, 232‒234 Front Street, Memphis, Tenn.

  =Gavin, Dr. P. F.=, 331 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Geoghegan, Charles A.=, 537‒539 West Broadway, New York City.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph G.=, 20 East 73d Street, New York City.

  =Geoghegan, Stephen J.= (life member), 20 East 73d Street, New York
    City.

  =Gibbons, T. F.=, with Theodore M. Roche & Co., 203 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Giblin, William=, Mercantile Safe Deposit Co., 120 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Gilbride, Patrick=, of O’Donnell & Gilbride, Lowell, Mass.

  =Gilman, John E.=, 28 Court Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Gleason, Joseph J.=, 142 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =Glynn, John W.=, Manager the Mansion House, Springfield, Mass.

  =Glynn, Thomas H.=, Water and Federal Streets, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Goggin, John=, Nashua, N. H.

  =Goggin, John F.=, 57 Locust Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Goodwin, John= (life member), 70‒72 West 23d Street, New York City.

  =Gorman, Hon. Charles E.=, Banigan Building, Providence, R. I.;
    ex-Speaker of the Rhode Island House of Representatives; ex-U. S.
    District Attorney; member of the recent Commission to revise the
    State Constitution of Rhode Island.

  =Gorman, Dennis J.=, 62 Forest Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Gorman, James J.=, 406 Spring St., Fall River, Mass.

  =Gorman, William= (life member), Stephen Girard Building,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Graham, Andrew M.=, 27 Middle Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Graham, Rev. John J.=, St. James’s Roman Catholic Church, Haverhill,
    Mass.

  =Grainger, William H.= (M. D.), 408 Meridian Street, East Boston,
    Mass.

  =Griffin, John=, 110 State Street, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Griffin, Martin I. J.=, 2009 North 12th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Griffin, Rt. Rev. Mgr.= (D. D.), St. John’s Church, Worcester, Mass.

  =Grimes, Robert W.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Guiney, John=, 9 Harvey Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Haggerty, J. Henry=, 50 South Street, New York City.

  =Hall, Edward A.=, member of the Connecticut Valley Historical
    Society, 66 Spring Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Halligan, Rev. J. M.=, Wellsville, Ohio.

  =Haltigan, Patrick J.=, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

  =Hanley, Frank L.=, Olneyville, R. I.

  =Hanlon, Marcus=, Room 234, 641 Washington Street, New York City.

  =Hanrahan, Dr. John D.=, Rutland, Vt., Surgeon in U. S. Navy during
    Civil War; ex-Postmaster of Rutland; first President Rutland County
    Medical and Surgical Society.

  =Hanrahan, William J.=, 200 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Harney, Hubert J.=, of the manufacturing firm Harney Bros., 103
    Washington Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Harney, Patrick J.=, of Harney Bros., 103 Washington Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Harney, Thomas F.=, of Harney Bros., 103 Washington Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Harrigan, M. R.=, _Bangor Commercial_, Bangor, Me.

  =Harriman, Dr. Patrick H.=, Norwich, Conn.

  =Harrington, Rev. J. C.=, Rector of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Lynn, Mass.

  =Harrington, Rev. John M.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Harrington, Thomas F.= (M. D.), Lowell, Mass.

  =Harrington, William=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Harris, Charles N.=, 89 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Harson, M. Joseph=, Providence, R. I.; member of the Rhode Island
    Historical Society.

  =Hart, Frank M.=, Passaic, N. J.

  =Hart, James A.=, Orange, N. J.

  =Hart, J. G.=, 965 Second Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Harty, Rev. John=, Rector of the Church of the Sacred Heart,
    Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Hastings, Hon. Daniel H.=, recently Governor of Pennsylvania,
    Harrisburg, Pa.

  =Haverty, Frank=, 14 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Hayes, John=, Concord Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Hayes, Dr. John F.=, Waterbury, Conn.; member of the Board of
    Education.

  =Hayes, Dr. S. W.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Healey, Col. D. F.=, Manchester, N. H.; served on the staff of
    Governor Goodell of New Hampshire; was high sheriff of Hillsborough
    County, N. H., for over twelve years; supervisor of census, 1900,
    for N. H.

  =Healey, Jere=, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Healy, John F.=, Davis, Tucker County, W. Va.

  =Healy, Col. John G.=, 117 Sherman Avenue, New Haven, Conn.; served in
    Ninth Connecticut Regiment during Civil War; has been first
    Vice-President of the Nineteenth Army Corps Association.

  =Healey, John A.=, 85 West Hollis Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Healy, Richard=, President Bay State Savings Bank, Worcester, Mass.

  =Hearn, Edward L.=, South Framingham, Mass.; prominent official of the
    Knights of Columbus.

  =Heery, Col. Luke=, 99 Fairmount Street, Lowell, Mass.; recently on
    the staff of Governor Waller of Connecticut.

  =Heery, James=, 99 Fairmount Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Heffern, Peter J.= (D. D. S.), 255 Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.;
    member of the State Board of Registration in Dentistry.

  =Hegerty, Stephen J.=, Hallowell, Me.

  =Henebry, Rev. Richard= (Ph. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D.
    C.

  =Hennessy, Dr. Daniel=, 5 High Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Hennessy, H. E.=, _Daily Globe_, Boston, Mass.

  =Henry, Charles T.=, 120 Liberty Street, New York City.

  =Hickey, James G.= (life member), Manager U. S. Hotel, Boston, Mass.

  =Hickey, Michael J.=, 80 Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Hickey, Rev. William A.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Hicks, Michael=, 147 West 121st Street, New York City.

  =Higgins, Francis=, 12 East 34th Street, New York City.

  =Hogan, Capt. Thomas J.=, 225 Middle Street, Portland, Me.

  =Hogan, Very Rev. John B.= (S. S., D. D.), President of St. John’s
    Ecclesiastical Seminary, Brighton (Boston), Mass.

  =Hogan, John W.=, lawyer, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Holland, D. A.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Holland, John P.=, 65 Nelson Place, Newark, N. J.; inventor of the
    submarine torpedo-boat.

  =Hopkins, William=, Assistant Day Editor _Boston Globe_; the talented
    “Bud Brier.”

  =Horigan, Cornelius=, Biddeford, Me.; ex-Member Maine Legislature.

  =Howard, Rev. J. J.=, St. Peter’s Roman Catholic Church, Worcester,
    Mass.

  =Howard, Hon. T. J.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Howes, Osborne=, Secretary of the Board of Fire Underwriters, 55
    Kilby Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Howley, Edward B.=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Hoye, John A.=, 40 Third Street, Dover, N. H.

  =Hughes, Rev. Christopher=, Fall River, Mass.

  =Hurley, Rev. E. F.=, Rector of St. Dominic’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Portland, Me.

  =Hurley, John E.=, care of Remington Printing Co., Providence, R. I.

  =Johnson, James G.=, 301 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =Jordan, M. J.=, lawyer, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Joyce, Bernard J.=, 82 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Kane, Dr. John H.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Kane, John P.=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Kavanagh, Rev. Patrick J.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Keating, James E.= (M. D.), 143 Pine Street, Portland, Me.

  =Keating, Patrick M.=, of the law firm, Gargan & Keating, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Keating, William H.=, 15 Vaughn Street, Portland, Me.

  =Keefe, Dennis F.= (D. D. S.), Butler Exchange, Providence, R. I.

  =Keefe, Patrick H.= (M. D.), 257 Benefit Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Keegan, Rev. James J.=, Woburn, Mass.

  =Keely, George=, 270 Brackett Street, Portland, Me.

  =Kehoe, John B.=, Portland, Me.

  =Kelley, J. D. Jerrold=, Lieutenant Commander U. S. N.; address, care
    Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

  =Kelley, Michael F.= (M. D.), 225 Third Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Kelley, Patrick=, 19 Davidson Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Kelly, James=, 13 Greenleaf Street, Portland, Me.

  =Kelly, James E.=, Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  =Kelly, John F.=, 284 West Housatonic Avenue, Pittsfield, Mass.

  =Kelly, John P.= (D. D. S.), 12 Essex Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Kelly, T. P.=, 544 West 22d Street, New York City.

  =Kelly, William J.=, 9 Dove Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Kelly, William J.=, Kittery, Me.

  =Kendricken, Hon. Paul H.=, 75 Maple Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.;
    ex-State Senator; member of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion.

  =Kenefick, Owen A.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Kennedy, Charles F.=, Brewer, Me.

  =Kennedy, Daniel=, 197 Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Kennedy, Dr. Francis M.=, 446 County Street, New Bedford, Mass.;
    trustee of Public Library.

  =Kennedy, Joseph P.=, 311 South Water Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Kennedy, Hon. P. J.=, 165 Webster Street, East Boston, Mass.; has
    been a State Senator.

  =Kennedy, P. J.=, 322 and 324 Nicollet Avenue, Minneapolis, Minn.

  =Kenney, James W.=, Treasurer Union Brewing Co., Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Kent, Pierce=, 356 East 57th Street, New York City; recently
    lieutenant in the 69th Regiment.

  =Kiernan, Rev. Owen=, Rector Church of the Immaculate Conception, Fall
    River, Mass.

  =Kiernan, Patrick=, 18 East 83d Street, New York City.

  =Kiley, Daniel F.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Killoren, Hon. Andrew=, Dover, N. H.; ex-State Senator.

  =Kilroy, Patrick=, 475 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Kilroy, Philip= (M. D.), Glen-Rath, Springfield, Mass.

  =King, Thomas E.=, 104 Howard Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Kinsela, John F.=, 509 Gorham Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Kirby, John P.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Kivel, Hon. John=, Dover, N. H.

  =Knights of St. Patrick=, San Francisco, Cal. (life member), care of
    John Mulhern, 122‒124 Market Street, San Francisco.

  =Lally, Frank=, 161 Saratoga Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Lamb, Matthew B.=, 516 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lamson, Col. Daniel S.=, Weston, Mass.

  =Lane, Rev. Florence A.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Lane, Thomas J.=, 120 Havre Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Lannan, P. H.=, _The Tribune_ Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Lappin, J. J.=, 7 Grant Street, Portland, Me.

  =Larkin, Very Rev. Thomas J.= (S. M.), President of All Hallows
    College, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Lavelle, John=, Inquiry Division, Post-office, Cleveland, Ohio.

  =Lawler, Thomas B.=, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City; with Ginn & Co.,
    publishers; Librarian and Archivist of the Society; member, American
    Oriental Society and of the Archæological Institute of America.

  =Lawless, Hon. Joseph T.=, Secretary of State, Richmond, Va.

  =Leahey, Dr. George A.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Leary, Daniel E.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Leary, Denis F.=, 254 Central Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Lee, Hugh J.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Lee, Rev. Robert F.=, 156 Danforth Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lee, Thomas C.=, 277 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Lenehan, John J.= (life member), 165 Broadway, New York City.

  =Lenihan, Rev. M. C.=, Marshalltown, Iowa.

  =Lennox, George W.=, manufacturer, Duncan Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Leonard, Hon. James F.=, mayor of Lawrence, Mass.

  =Leonard, Thomas F.=, musical director, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Leonard, Peter F.=, 343 Harvard Street, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Linehan, James C.=, 18 Foster Street, Peabody, Mass.

  =Linehan, Hon. John C.=, State Insurance Commissioner, Concord, N. H.

  =Linehan, John J.=, manufacturer, Springfield, Mass.

  =Linehan, Rev. Timothy P.=, Rector of St. Mary’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Biddeford, Me.; was for ten years Rector of the Cathedral,
    Portland, Me.

  =Linehan, Timothy P.=, Wolfe Tavern, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Long, M. D.=, O’Neill, Nebraska.

  =Lovell, David B.= (M. D.), 32 Pearl Street, Worcester, Mass.; member
    New England Ophthalmological Society.

  =Lowe, Hon. Robert A.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Lowery, Dr. James E.=, Sopris, Las Animas County, Colorado.

  =Lowery, William H.=, 86 Adams Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lowney, Rev. T. B.=, Marlborough, Mass.

  =Lucey, Rev. Thomas P.=, Northampton, Mass.

  =Lyman, William=, 51 East 122d Street, New York City.

  =Lynch, Charles E.=, 367 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Lynch, Cornelius J.=, 331 Pine Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Lynch, J. H.=, Fort Hamilton, N. Y.

  =Lynch, James M.=, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Lynch, John E.=, Principal Thomas Street School; Director Free Public
    Library, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lynch, Gen. John J.=, 145 Spring Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lynch, Dr. M. H.=, Chicopee Falls, Mass.

  =Lynch, Thomas J.=, Augusta, Me.; member Augusta Board of Trade.

  =Lynn, Hon. Wauhope=, 280 Broadway, New York City.

  =Lyons, Rev. Francis X.=, Laconia, N. H.

  =Lyons, Rev. John J.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Lyons, Michael R.=, 243 Main Street, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =Lyons, Dr. W. H. A.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =MacDonnell, John T. F.=, manufacturer, Holyoke, Mass.

  =MacGoldrick, Rev. D. J.=, St. Thomas College, Scranton, Pa.

  =McGolrick, Rt. Rev. James, D. D.=, Duluth, Minn.

  =Madden, Joseph=, Keene, N. H.

  =Magee, John A.= (M. D.), 203 Haverhill Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Magenis, James P.=, lawyer, 1 Somerset Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Magner, Thomas=, Sup’t Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Rutland, Vt.

  =Magrane, P. B.=, dry goods merchant, Lynn, Mass.

  =Magrath, P. F.= (life member), 244 Front Street, Binghamton, N. Y.

  =Maguire, John C.=, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Maguire, John E.=, manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Maher, James J.=, Augusta, Me.

  =Maher, Dr. Stephen J.=, 212 Orange Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Mahoney, Daniel D.=, of D. D. Mahoney & Son, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Mahoney, James=, Hotel Nottingham, Boston, Mass.

  =Mahoney, James V.=, Commissioner of the Commercial Association, Sioux
    City, Iowa.

  =Mahoney, John P. S.=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.; recently
    President of the Common Council.

  =Mahoney, Rev. Martin=, Mendota, Minn.

  =Mahoney, M. J.=, Hampshire & Bradford Streets, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Mahoney, Dr. Michael P.=, 63 East Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Malloy, Gen. A. G.=, El Paso, Texas; a veteran of the Mexican and
    Civil Wars; during the latter conflict he was successively Major,
    Colonel, and Brigadier-General; has been Collector of the Port of
    Galveston.

  =Maloney, Cornelius=, publisher, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Maloney, Dr. Thomas E.=, 278 Franklin Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Maneely, John=, 309‒311 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Mangan, John J.= (M. D.), 55 North Common Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Manning, Timothy T.=, care of James & Marra, Springfield, Mass.

  =Mannix, Cornelius A.=, 40 Sheridan Street, Portland, Me.

  =Marshall, Rev. George F.=, Rector of St. Paul’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Milford, N. H.

  =Martin, Rev. Farrell= (D. D.), Waterbury, Conn.

  =Martin, Dr. James F.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Martin, Hon. John B.=, 762 Fourth Street, South Boston, Mass.

  =May, Henry A.=, Roslindale, Mass.

  =McAdoo, Hon. William=, Assistant Secretary of the Navy (under
    Cleveland), 15 Wall Street, New York City.

  =McAleer, George=, Treasurer Bay State Savings Bank, Worcester, Mass.

  =McAlevy, John F.=, 26‒50 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =McAuliffe, John F.=, with the Livermore & Knight Co., Westminster
    Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McCabe, Rev. Michael=, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Providence, R. I.

  =McCaffrey, Hugh= (life member), Fifth and Berks Streets,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =McCann, Daniel E.=, 37 Preble Street, Portland, Me.

  =McCarrick, James W.=, Clyde’s Steam Lines, Norfolk, Va.

  =McCarthy, Charles, Jr.=, Portland, Me.

  =McCarthy, Rev. Jeremiah=, Gardiner, Me.

  =McCarthy, John H.=, 8 West 125th Street, New York City.

  =McCarthy, Patrick J.=, Industrial Trust Building, Providence, R. I.

  =McCarthy, T. A.= (D. D. S.), Main Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =McCaughey, Bernard=, 93‒105 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =McClallen, Edward C.=, Rutland, Vt.; of the fifth American
    generation.

  =McCluskey, James J.=, 31 Milk Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McConnell, James E.=, Fitchburg, Mass.; candidate for
    Lieutenant-Governor of Massachusetts, 1896.

  =McConway, William= (life member), manufacturer, Pittsburg, Pa.

  =McCoy, Rev. John J.=, Permanent Rector of the Church of the Holy
    Name, Chicopee, Mass.

  =McCrystal, Maj. Edward T.=, 69th Regiment Infantry, N. G. N. Y., New
    York City.

  =McCullough, Edward= (M. D.), 123 Union Street, Bangor, Me.

  =McCullough, John=, 55 Maxfield Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =McCusker, John F.= (M. D.), 96 Broad Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McDermott, Rev. William A.=, Redwood, N. Y.; under the _nom-de-plume_
    “Walter Lecky” he has produced much literary work.

  =McDermott, Thomas J.=, Biddeford, Me.; proprietor of Biddeford Iron
    and Brass Works.

  =McDonald, Dr. Edward W.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =McDonald, Dr. J. A.=, 116 Main Street, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =McDonald, John=, 70 Leicester Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McDonald, Mitchell C.=, Paymaster U. S. N.; address care Navy
    Department, Washington, D. C.

  =McDonnell, Thomas F. I.=, 17 Custom House Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McDonnell, Thomas H.=, School Street, Quincy, Mass.

  =McDonough, Edward J.= (M. D.), 333 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =McDonough, Hon. John J.=, Fall River, Mass.

  =McDonough, Rev. M. C.=, Bath, Me.

  =McEleney, William=, 45 Cedar Street, Portland, Me.

  =McElroy, Rev. Charles J.=, Rector St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Derby, Conn.

  =McEvoy, John W.=, 137 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McGauran, Michael S.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =McGillicuddy, Hon. D. J.=, Lewiston, Me.; Mayor, 1887‒’90.

  =McGinnis, Rev. John J.=, Sandford, Me.

  =McGinnis, Lieut.-Col. John R.=, ordnance corps, U. S. A.; care War
    Department, Washington, D. C.

  =McGlinchy, J. H.=, 128 Danforth Street, Portland, Me.

  =McGoey, J.=, 78 Worth Street, New York City.

  =McGolrick, Rev. E. J.=, 84 Herbert Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =McGolrick, Rt. Rev. James= (D. D.), Duluth, Minn.

  =McGovern, James A.= (life member), New York City.

  =McGovern, Joseph P.=, 193 Green Street, New York City.

  =McGowan, Joseph A.=, 263 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =McGowan, P. F.= (life member), Board of Education, New York City.

  =McGrath, Rev. Christopher=, 264 Washington Street, Somerville, Mass.;
    Rector St. Joseph’s Church.

  =McGuinness, Bernard=, 32 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McGuinness, Hon. Edwin D.=, Providence, R. I.; has served two terms
    as Mayor of Providence, and two as Secretary of State of Rhode
    Island.

  =McGuire, Edward J.=, 54 Wall Street, New York City.

  =McGuire, Rev. Francis D.=, The Cathedral, Albany, N. Y.

  =McGurk, Charles J.=, City Auditor, New Bedford, Mass.

  =McGurrin, Frank E.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =McIntyre, John F.=, lawyer, 220 Broadway, New York City.

  =McKechnie, Rev. James H.=, Worcester, Mass.

  =McKechnie, William G.=, 366 Walnut Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =McKeever, Capt. Samuel=, U. S. A., 74 Belmont Street, Somerville,
    Mass., (Brev’t Lieut.-Col.).

  =McKellegett, George F.=, 27 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

  =McKeon, Francis P.=, Millbury Street School, Worcester, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, Edward A.=, Tremont Bldg., Boston, Mass.; was for several
    years clerk of the Massachusetts House of Representatives.

  =McLaughlin, Henry V.= (M. D.), 29 Kent Street, Brookline, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, James M.=, 56 Bowdoin Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.;
    Supervisor of Music in Boston Public Schools; author of “The
    Educational Music System.”

  =McLaughlin, Marcus J.=, 250 West 25th Street, New York City.

  =McLaughlin, Thomas=, Hallowell, Me.

  =McLaughlin, William H.=, 24 C Street, Knightville, Portland, Me.

  =McLaughlin, William I.=, State Mutual Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =McMahon, Edward J.=, Walker Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =McMahon, James=, 51 Chambers Street, New York City.

  =McMahon, James H.=, 17 Main Street, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =McMahon, Rev. John W.= (D. D.), Rector St. Mary’s Church, Charlestown
    (Boston), Mass.

  =McManus, Col. John=, 145‒147 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.;
    served on the staff of Governor Davis of Rhode Island.

  =McManus, Michael=, of McManus & Co., clothiers, 670 Washington
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McManus, Gen. Thomas=, 333 Main Street, Hartford, Conn.

  =McManus, Rev. Michael T.=, Rector St. Mary’s Church, Brookline, Mass.

  =McMunn, R. H.=, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =McNamee, John H. H.=, 51 Frost Street, North Cambridge, Mass.

  =McNeely, Richard=, 309 East 42d Street, New York City.

  =McNeirny, Michael J.=, Gloucester, Mass.

  =McNulty, Rev. John J.=, St. Cecilia Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McQuade, F. A.=, 75‒77 Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McQuaid, Rev. William P.=, Rector St. James Church, Harrison Avenue,
    Boston, Mass.

  =McQueeney, Henry J.=, of the Post-office staff, Lawrence, Mass.

  =McSweeney, Edward F.=, Assistant U. S. Commissioner of Immigration,
    Ellis Island, N. Y.

  =McSweeny, Rev. Edward=, Rector St. John’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Bangor, Me.

  =McVey, Edward D.=, 519 Westford Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McVicar, P. A.=, Auburndale, Mass.

  =McWilliams, Daniel A.=, 16 Hamilton Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Mehan, Charles=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Mehegan, Daniel J.= (M. D.), 31 Broadway, Taunton, Mass.

  =Mellen, James H.=, 119 Providence Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Mellen, Hon. W. M. E.=, ex-Mayor, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Milholland, John E.=, Tubular Despatch Co., Tribune Building, New
    York City.

  =Millea, William H.=, 154 Washington Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Minahan, Hon. T. B.=, Board of Trade, Columbus, Ohio.

  =Miskella, James=, 10 Chase Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Molloy, Hugh J.=, State Normal School, Lowell, Mass.

  =Moloney, T. W.=, of Butler & Moloney, counselors-at-law, Rutland, Vt.

  =Molony, Henry A.=, 16 New Street, Charleston, S. C.

  =Monaghan, Rt. Rev. John J.= (D. D.), Bishop of Wilmington, Del.

  =Monohan, Michael=, 874 Broadway, New York City.

  =Mooney, J. G.=, 154 Exchange Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Mooney, John A.=, 353 West 27th Street, New York City.

  =Moore, Dr. James A.=, 223 Grand Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  =Moore, O’Brien= (life member), recently of the Washington (D. C.)
    bureau of the _St. Louis Republic_; publisher of the _Daily
    Gazette_, Charleston, W. Va.

  =Moran, Col. James=, Providence, R. I.; served in the Fifth R. I.
    Heavy Artillery during the Civil War; recently commanded the Second
    Regiment, Rhode Island Militia.

  =Moran, Dr. James=, 333 West 51st Street, New York City.

  =Moran, Thomas, Jr.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Moran, William=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Morrissey, William T.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Morrissey, Very Rev. Andrew= (C. S. C.), president of the University
    of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.

  =Morrissy, Thomas=, 48‒50 West 14th Street, New York City.

  =Morrison, Francis M.=, 492 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Moseley, Edward A.=, Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Moses, George H.=, editor _The Monitor_, Concord, N. H.

  =Moyes, Rev. David= (D. C. L.), West Springfield, Mass.

  =Moynahan, Bartholomew=, 120 Broadway, New York City.

  =Moynihan, Michael A.=, Portsmouth, N. H.; U. S. Internal Revenue
    Office.

  =Mulcahy, Rev. John=, Arlington, Mass.

  =Mulholland, Gen. St. Clair A.=, U. S. Pension Agent, Philadelphia,
    Pa.

  =Mullaney, Rev. John F.=, Rector Church of St. John the Baptist,
    Syracuse, N. Y.

  =Mullen, Hugh=, of Brown, Durrell & Co., Boston, Mass.

  =Mullen, John F.=, 14 Pennsylvania Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Mulligan, B. J.=, 37 Warren Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Mulvihill, Henry=, 825 Market Street, Parrott Building, San
    Francisco, Cal.

  =Murphy, Chas. B.=, Augusta, Me.

  =Murphy, D. P., Jr.=, 31 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Murphy, Daniel D.= (M. D.), Amesbury, Mass.

  =Murphy, David E.=, 8 Perley Street, Concord, N. H.

  =Murphy, Edward J.=, 327 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, Frank J.=, lock box 161, Olean, N. Y.

  =Murphy, Fred C.=, Dickinson Building, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, J. H.=, attorney-at-law, Portland, Oregon.

  =Murphy, Hon. John R.=, Boston, Mass.; ex-State Senator of
    Massachusetts.

  =Murphy, James=, real estate and insurance, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Murphy, James=, 42 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Murphy, James R.=, lawyer, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murphy, John A.=, 276 Union Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, Thomas=, 144 Elm Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Murphy, William=, 2 Lewis Park, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Murray, Capt. John F.=, police department, Cambridge, Mass.;
    residence, 9 Avon Street.

  =Murray, Frank E.=, 47 Park Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Murray, Joseph T.=, 131 Pearl Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Murray, Michael J.=, attorney-at-law, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murray, Thomas Hamilton=, Secretary-General of the Society,
    Woonsocket, R. I.

  =Nammack, Dr. Charles E.=, 42 East 29th Street, New York City.

  =Naphen, Hon. Henry F.=, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; member of
    Congress.

  =Neagle, Rev. Richard=, Malden, Mass.

  =Neagle, Thomas J.=, 66 Franklin Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Neilon, John F.=, Saco, Me.

  =Nicholson, George=, 40 Oak Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Nolan, Frank F.=, 224 Thames Street, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Bierne, Gen. James R.=, 357 West 117th Street, New York City.

  =O’Brien, Capt. Lawrence=, 70 Beach Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =O’Brien, Frank J.=, of Donigan & O’Brien, 322 Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.; late a member of the City Council.

  =O’Brien, Hon. C. D.=, 212 Globe Building, St. Paul, Minn., ex-Mayor
    of St. Paul.

  =O’Brien, John D.=, Bank of Minnesota Building, St. Paul, Minn.; of
    the law firm Stevens, O’Brien, Cole & Albrecht.

  =O’Brien, Hon. Morgan J.=, 42 West 44th Street, New York City; a
    Justice of the Supreme Court.

  =O’Brien, Patrick=, 399 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Brien, Rev. James J.=, Somerville, Mass.; a son of the late Hon.
    Hugh O’Brien, Mayor of Boston.

  =O’Brien, Thomas=, 155 Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =O’Brien, Very Rev. Michael C.=, 30 Cedar Street, Bangor, Me.;
    Vicar-General of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Portland.

  =O’Byrne, J. J.=, 206 57th Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =O’Byrne, M. A.=, 370 West 118th Street, New York City.

  =O’Callaghan, P. J.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Callaghan, Rev. Denis= (D. D.), Rector St. Augustine’s Roman
    Catholic Church, South Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connell, Dr. J. C.=, U. S. Pension Office, Saginaw, Mich.

  =O’Connell, John=, 302 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =O’Connell, Patrick=, 81 Westland Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connell, Timothy=, 140 State Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =O’Connor, Charles A.=, 135 Lawrence Street, Manchester, N. H.; member
    State Constitutional Convention; two terms in the State Legislature.

  =O’Connor, Charles J.=, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Connor, D. F.=, 341 Central Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =O’Connor, Dr. Joseph M.=, 204 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =O’Connor, Edward DeV.=, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Connor, Francis=, Siegel, Cooper & Co., New York City.

  =O’Connor, James=, 37 Prospect Street, Biddeford. Me.

  =O’Connor, John D.=, The Washington Press, 18 Essex Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =O’Connor, Patrick=, 99 Mill Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =O’Conor, P. H.=, Washington Street, Peabody, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Rev. James H.=, Watertown, Conn., author of a recently
    published history of the Catholic diocese of Hartford, Conn.

  =O’Donnell, James J.=, 65 Taylor Street, Holyoke, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Hon. John B.=, ex-Mayor, Northampton, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Rev. Philip J.=, 887 Shawmut Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Doherty, Hon. Matthew=, Louisville, Ky.

  =O’Doherty, Rev. James= (life member), Rector St. James Roman Catholic
    Church, Haverhill, Mass.

  =O’Donoghue, Col. D. O’C.=, 75 Emery Street, Portland, Me.

  =O’Dowd, Michael=, 922 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =O’Driscoll, Daniel M.=, Western Union Telegraph Co., Charleston, S.
    C.

  =O’Dwyer, Hon. E. F.=, 37 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =O’Farrell, Charles=, 173 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., an
    earnest, scholarly worker in the Irish language movement.

  =O’Farrell, Patrick=, of O’Farrell, Fowler & O’Farrell, lawyers,
    Solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, 1425 New York Avenue, N.
    W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Farrell, Rev. Dennis J.=, 7 North Square, Boston, Mass., Rector St.
    Stephen’s Church.

  =O’Flaherty, James=, 150 Nassau Street, New York City.

  =O’Flaherty, John= (M. D.), Hartford, Conn.; served during the Civil
    War in Corcoran’s Legion as a member of the 170th Regiment, New York
    Volunteers.

  =O’Flynn, Thomas F.=, 25 Grosvenor Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Gorman, Hon. J. A.=, 312 West 54th Street, New York City.

  =O’Hagan, Thomas= (A. M., Ph. D.), 151 Mutual Street, Toronto, Canada.

  =O’Hart, John=, 1 Woodside, Vernon Avenue, Clontarf, Ireland; author
    of “O’Hart’s Irish Pedigrees,” “The Last Princess of Tara,” etc.

  =O’Keefe, Daniel T.= (M. D.), 183 Green Street, Jamaica Plain
    (Boston), Mass.

  =O’Keefe, Edmund=, Inspector Buildings, New Bedford, Mass.

  =O’Keefe, John A.=, lawyer, 25 Exchange Street, Lynn, Mass.; formerly
    Principal of the High School in that city; recently candidate for
    Attorney-General of Massachusetts.

  =O’Kennedy, J. J.= Karbry (LL. D.), 77 Broadway, New York City.

  =O’Laughlin, Patrick=, lawyer, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Mahoney, Daniel J.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.;
    ex-Superintendent of Streets.

  =O’Mahoney, Michael=, of Moulton & O’Mahoney, contractors, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =O’Malley, Rev. John=, St. Anne’s Church, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Malley, Thomas F.=, law office, Union Square, Somerville, Mass.

  =O’Neil, Hon. Joseph H.=, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Neil, James=, 521 7th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Neil, James=, Hampshire and Common Streets, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Neill, Rev. Daniel H.=, 935 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Neill, Rev. D. P.=, Westchester, N. Y.

  =O’Neill, Eugene C.=, 51 Lee Avenue, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Neill, Francis Q.=, President Hibernian Trust and Savings Bank,
    Charleston, S. C.

  =O’Neill, James L.=, 220 Franklin Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  =O’Neill, John=, 131 Cook Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =O’Neill, John E.=, 53 Lee Avenue, Newport, R. I.; member of the Board
    of Aldermen; cashier New York and Boston Despatch Express Company.

  =O’Neill, Thomas J.=, The Aquidneck, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Neill, William F.=, Chicopee Falls, Mass.

  =O’Reilly, F. C.=, Orange, N. J.

  =O’Reilly, Luke F.=, 825 7th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Reilly, Rev. James T.= (O. S. A.), Rector of St. Mary’s Church,
    Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Reilly, Thomas B.=, Salt Lake City Utah.

  =O’Rourke, Timothy=, 91 Scoville Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =O’Shaughnessy, E. J.=, 912 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City.

  =O’Shea, J. F.= (M. D.), 116 Union Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, Humphrey=, 105 Butterfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, James=, of O’Sullivan Bros., Merrimack Street, Lowell,
    Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, James T.=, real estate and insurance, Lawrence, Mass.;
    ex-City Marshall.

  =O’Sullivan, John=, The H. B. Claflin Co., Church Street, North
    Street, and West Broadway, New York City.

  =Patterson, Rev. George J.=, Rector St. Vincent’s Church, South
    Boston, Mass.

  =Penney, William M.=, 34 West 26th Street, New York City.

  =Perry, Dr. Charles J.=, World Building, New York City.

  =Phalen, Rev. Frank L.=, pastor Church of the Unity, Worcester, Mass.;
    chaplain of the First New Hampshire Regiment, U. S. Volunteers (war
    with Spain).

  =Phelan, Dr. Daniel J.=, 123 West 94th Street, New York City.

  =Phelan, Hon. James D.=, Mayor of San Francisco, Cal.

  =Phelan, James J.=, 66 West 85th Street, New York City.

  =Phelan, John J.=, 66 West 85th Street, New York City.

  =Phelan, Rev. J.=, Rector of St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church, Rock
    Valley, Iowa; recently editor of the _Northwestern Catholic_.

  =Philpott, Anthony J.=, _Daily Globe_, Boston, Mass.

  =Piggott, Michael=, 1634 Vermont Street, Quincy, Ill.

  =Plunkett, Thomas=, 257 6th Street, East Liverpool, Ohio.

  =Power, James D.=, U. S. Custom House, New York City.

  =Power, Rev. James W.=, 47 East 129th Street, New York City.

  =Powers, Patrick H.=, President Emerson Piano Co., 110 Boylston
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Pulleyn, John J.=, Catholic Club, 171 West 94th Street, New York
    City.

  =Quinlan, Daniel J.=, 53 East 127th Street, New York City.

  =Quinlan, Prof. Francis J.= (M. D., LL. D.), 33 West 38th Street, New
    York City; recently President New York Celtic Medical Society; late
    surgeon in the U. S. Indian service.

  =Quinlan, Col. James=, 120 Liberty Street, New York City.

  =Quinn, Hon. John=, 66 Broadway, New York City.

  =Quinn, John J.=, 154‒160 West 124th Street, New York City.

  =Quinn, Joseph F.=, 6 Broad Street Court, Salem, Mass.

  =Quinton, Lieut.-Col. William=, U. S. A., care of War Department,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Radikin, Edward F.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Rafferty, Dr. James J.=, Worcester, Mass.

  =Ratigan, John B.=, Walker Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =Ray, Hon. Harry P.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Reardon, Edmund=, 24 Commerce Street, Boston, Mass.; residence,
    Cambridge, Mass.; Member Boston Chamber of Commerce; Director
    Commercial National Bank.

  =Redding, Capt. James F.=, 59 Broad Street, Charleston, S. C.

  =Redican, Rev. J. F.=, Leicester, Mass.

  =Reed, Henry E.=, Portland, Oregon, care of _The Oregonian_.

  =Regan, W. P.=, architect, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Reilly, Robert J.=, Cedar Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Reynolds, James F.=, 12 Belmont Place, Somerville, Mass.

  =Rice, James D.=, 39 Hammond Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Rice, John H.=, Eastern Trust and Banking Co., Bangor, Me.

  =Richardson, Stephen J.=, 1785 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Riddle, Patrick E.=, East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.

  =Riordan, John H.=, 136 Fort Hill Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  =Roche, James Jeffrey= (LL. D.), editor of _The Pilot_, 630 Washington
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Roche, Martin J.=, 23 City Square, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Rock, Thomas H.=, Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Roe, James V.=, Harbor View, East Boston, Mass.

  =Rodwaye, Alfred J.=, 44 Kingston Street, Boston, Mass.; a member of
    the Jacobite Order of the White Rose; Fellow of the Royal Historical
    Society, England; Fellow of the Royal Society of Northern
    Antiquarians, Denmark; member of the Royal Italian Heraldic Academy.

  =Rooney, John J.=, of Rooney & Spence, customs brokers, 66, 68 and 70
    Beaver Street, New York City.

  =Rorke, James=, 40 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Rosary Magazine=, editor of the (life member), Somerset, Ohio.

  =Rossa, Jeremiah O’Donovan=, New York City.

  =Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore=, Vice-President of the United States,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Ruggles, Henry Stoddard= (ninth American generation), Wakefield,
    Mass.; a member of the Sons of the Revolution and of the Sons of the
    American Revolution.

  =Rush, John=, 16th and Farnham Streets, Omaha, Neb.

  =Ryan, Charles V.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Ryan, Christopher S.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Ryan, Felix L.=, 47 Main Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Ryan, John=, 789 Westfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 204 Merrimack Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 59 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 158 East 95th Street, New York City.

  =Ryan, Patrick H.=, 789 Westfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Ryan, Philip=, 79 Portland Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Ryan, Richard=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Ryan, Sylvester A.=, 565 Chestnut Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Sanders, Col. C. C.=, Gainesville, Ga.; President of the State
    Banking Co.; commanded the 24th Georgia Regiment in the Civil War.

  =Sasseen, Robert A.=, Equitable Life Assurance Society, 120 Broadway,
    New York City.

  =Scanlan, Rev. M. A.=, 1276 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

  =Scully, Martin=, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Scully, Rev. Thomas=, Cambridgeport, Mass.

  =Sexton, Sergt. Patrick G.=, U. S. A., Augusta, Me.

  =Shahan, Rev. Thomas H.=, Malden, Mass.

  =Shahan, Rev. Thomas J.= (D. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D.
    C.

  =Shanahan, Rev. Edmund T.= (Ph. D., D. D.), Catholic University,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Shea, C. J.=, of Shea & Donnelly, Lynn, Mass.

  =Shea, John B.=, 19 Maiden Lane, New York City.

  =Shea, John T.=, 119 3d Street, East Cambridge, Mass.; member of the
    Board of Aldermen.

  =Shea, Richard J.=, City Hall, Lawrence, Mass.; clerk of the Council;
    City Auditor.

  =Sheahan, Dennis H.=, Providence, R. I., ex-clerk of the Rhode Island
    House of Representatives.

  =Sheahan, Dr. Joseph M.=, 6 School Street, Quincy, Mass.

  =Sheehan, John A.=, Pickering Building, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sheehan, Joseph=, southwest corner 6th and Market Streets,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Sheran, Hugh F.=, 46 Woodbine Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Sheridan, Bernard H.=, principal of the Oliver School, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Sheridan, Rev. John A.=, 97 South Street, Jamaica Plain (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Sherman, P. Tecumseh= (son of Gen. W. T. Sherman), 59 Wall Street,
    New York City.

  =Shortell, Joseph P.=, 28 Cabot Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Shuman, A.=, 440 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Slattery, James A.=, Boston, Mass.

  =Slattery, John J.=, President Todd-Donigan Iron Co., Louisville, Ky.

  =Slocum, Rev. Wm. J.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Smith, Rev. James J.=, 88 Central Street, Norwich, Conn.

  =Smith, Joseph=, Secretary of the Police Commission, Lowell, Mass.

  =Smith, Dr. Thomas B.=, Wyman’s Exchange, Lowell, Mass.

  =Smyth, Eneas=, Brookline, Mass.

  =Smyth, Philip A.=, 11 Pine Street, New York City.

  =Smyth, Rev. Hugh J.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Hugh P.=, Rector St. Joseph’s Church, Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Thomas=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Thomas M.=, East Liverpool, Ohio.

  =Somers, James F.=, 83 West 132d Street, New York City.

  =Somers, P. E.=, 17 Hermon Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Somers, Thomas F.=, 349 Broadway, New York City.

  =Spillane, J. B.=, 3 East 14th Street, New York City.

  =Steele, Hon. John H.=, Phœnix Building, Minneapolis, Minn.

  =Stevens, Walter F.=, 176 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Storen, William J.=, 232 Calhoun Street, Charleston, S. C.

  =Sullivan, Eugene M.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Dr. James E.=, 254 Wayland Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Sullivan, James J.=, 18 Margaret Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Sullivan, James O.=, 245 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Sullivan, Jeremiah D.=, 431 Purchase Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Sullivan, John A.=, The Catholic Club, New York City.

  =Sullivan, John D.=, 113 Palm Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, 140 Chestnut Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, 61‒63 Faneuil Hall Market, Boston, Mass.; of Doe,
    Sullivan & Co.

  =Sullivan, Hon. M. B.=, Dover, N. H., ex-State Senator.

  =Sullivan, M. F.= (M. D.), Oak Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Sullivan, M. J.=, of Buckley, McCormack & Sullivan, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Patrick F.=, of Sullivan Bros., 9 School Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Sullivan, Patrick H.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sullivan, Hon. Richard=, Hemingway Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Roger G.=, 803 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sullivan, Timothy P.=, Concord, N. H.; furnished granite from his New
    Hampshire quarries for the new National Library building,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Sullivan, William J.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =Supple, Rev. James N.=, Rector St. Francis de Sales Church,
    Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Sweeny, William Montgomery=, 120 Franklin Street, Astoria, L. I., N.
    Y.

  =Swords, Joseph Forsyth=, Room 500 Bank of Commerce Building, Nassau
    and Cedar Streets, New York City.

  =Tack, Theo. E.=, 52 Broadway, New York City.

  =Tally, Philip=, 353 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Teeling, Rev. Arthur J.=, Rector St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Lynn, Mass.

  =Tennian, Rev. John C.=, Rector Church of the Assumption, Potter’s
    Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Thomas, Robert J.=, Water Department, Lowell, Mass.

  =Thompson, Frank=, 544 West 22d Street, New York City.

  =Thompson, Robert Ellis= (Ph. D., S. T. D.), President Central High
    School, Philadelphia, Pa.: recently a professor in the University of
    Pennsylvania.

  =Tierney, Dennis H.=, 167 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Tierney, John C.=, 1317 Park Avenue, Hoboken, N. J.

  =Tierney, Rev. John D.=, Salem, Mass.

  =Tierney, Myles= (life member), 317 Riverside Drive, New York City.

  =Tigh, Frederick= (M. D.), 132 High Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Timmins, Patrick J.= (M. D.), 487 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Toland, M. A.=, _The Pilot_ Office, 630 Washington Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Toomey, Daniel J.=, manager _Donahoe’s Magazine_, Washington Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Toomey, R. A.=, with Forbes & Wallace, Springfield, Mass.

  =Travers, Ambrose F.=, 107 Duane Street, New York City.

  =Travers, F. C.=, President of Travers Brothers Co., 107 Duane Street,
    New York City, cordage manufacturers.

  =Travers, Vincent P.=, 107 Duane Street, New York City.

  =Treanor, J. O.=, 211 Union Street, Nashville, Tenn.

  =Tuckey, James F.=, 26 Grove Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Vail, Roger=, associate editor _The Irish Standard_, Minneapolis,
    Minn.

  =Vance, Thomas F.=, Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Ver Planck, William G.=, 149 Broadway, New York City.

  =Waldron, Thomas F.=, 74 Washington Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Wallace, Rev. T. H.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Wallace, Rev. Thomas W.=, 437 West 51st Street, New York City.

  =Waller, Hon. Thomas M.=, ex-Governor of Connecticut, 15 Wall Street,
    New York City.

  =Walsh, Henry Collins=, care of the _New York Herald_, New York City;
    a descendant of Gen. Stephen Moylan of the American Revolution.

  =Walsh, James A.=, Lewiston, Me.; agent Lewiston Bleachery.

  =Walsh, Michael= (LL. D., Ph. D.), editor of the _Sunday Democrat_, 32
    Park Row, New York City.

  =Walsh, Philip C.=, 22 Grant Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Walsh, William P.=, 247 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Ward, Edward=, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, John T.=, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, Michael J.=, Hotel Ilkley, Huntington Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =Ward, Patrick=, 13 Casco Street, Portland, Me.

  =Ware, Alfred=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Weadock, Hon. Thomas A. E.=, Detroit, Mich.; member of the 52d and
    53d Congresses.

  =Welsh, John P.=, Portland, Me.

  =Whalen, Maurice H.=, 8 Vetromile Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Whalen, Nicholas J.=, 97 Merrimack Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Whall, William B. F.=, 57 Monmouth Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Williams, Hon. George Fred=, 209 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Willis, John R.=, 1164 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Wilson, Hon. Thomas=, St. Paul, Minn.; care of Chicago, St. Paul,
    Minneapolis & Omaha R. R.

  =Wilson, William Power=, Exchange Building, 53 State Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Woods, John J.=, 54 Federal Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Woods, Robert J.=, treasurer University Settlement, 6 Rollins Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Woods, William S.=, City Solicitor, Taunton, Mass.

  =Wynne, Peter=, 301 East 105th Street, New York City.


                     SUPPLEMENTARY LIST OF MEMBERS.

  =Carney, Owen J.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Conlon, William L.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Cox, William T.=, 12 South Second Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  =Curry, E. J.=, 1267 Lexington Avenue, New York City.

  =Doyle, Nathaniel=, New York Club, 35th Street and 5th Avenue, New
    York City.

  =Ford, Prof. J. D. M.=, 7 Thayer Hall, Harvard College, Cambridge,
    Mass.

  =Harbison, Hon. Alexander=, Mayor of Hartford, Conn.

  =Harrington, William=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Kenny, Rev. John=, Northampton, Mass.

  =Kent, D. V.=, city auditor, Kansas City, Mo.

  =Leary, William=, 450 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  NOTE.—On pages 24, 29, for George E. Van Siclen read George W. Van
  Siclen. In transmitting her valuable paper on “The Irish Settlers of
  Pelham, Mass.,” Miss Linehan of Hartford, Conn., writes relative to
  Shays’ Rebellion: “Daniel Shea,” the acknowledged leader, had his
  name spelled in various ways. In American histories it is spelled
  “Shays.” The writers of these histories have evidently never taken
  very great pains to look up this Irishman. I find that the name is
  spelled Shea, Sheas, Sha, Shays, Shay, also Shess and Shass.
  Spelling in his day was, very evidently, phonetic. As he is said to
  have come from Cork, Ireland, I have no doubt whatever but that he
  originally spelled his name as they do in that country to-day,—Shea.
  In a receipt given before the war he spells the name “Shea.” In a
  note given after the war he spells his name “Shays.” My authority,
  outside of the receipt and note are the town records of Pelham,
  Mass., where the various spelling of the name is given. The
  correspondence between him and Gen. Lincoln, 1787, may be found in
  the Massachusetts Archives, State House, Boston, Mass.




        GOOD WORDS FOR VOLUME II OF THE JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY.


Volume II of the Society’s Journal, covering the year 1899, was greeted
with sentiments of high commendation as Volume I (1898) had been. The
following extracts are reproduced from a mass of acknowledgments,
received by Secretary T. H. Murray, relative to the second volume:

  From Mr. William Montgomery Sweeny, Astoria, L. I., N. Y.: “The
  volume is a very handsome one and an addition to any library.”

  From Mr. Henry Stoddard Ruggles, Wakefield, Mass.: “I acknowledge
  with thanks the receipt this day of the most creditable volume of
  our Society for the year 1899.”

  From Rev. M. S. Lenihan, Marshalltown, Ia.: “I desire to thank you
  for Volume II of the Journal of our Society, which I prize very much
  as it is full of valuable information.”

  From P. J. Timmins, M. D., South Boston, Mass.: “I thank you for
  Volume II, Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society. It
  seems to be even more interesting than Volume I.”

  From Mr. John P. Farrell, New Haven, Conn.: “The Journal for ’99 was
  duly received. I am very much pleased with it, and wish yourself and
  officers of the Society success for the coming year.”

  From Paymaster John R. Carmody, U. S. N.: “I acknowledge with thanks
  the receipt of Volume II of the Journal of the Society, and
  congratulate you heartily upon the good work you are doing.”

  From Mr. Frank Haverty, New York City: “Enclosed you will please
  find $3, my annual dues as a member of the American-Irish Historical
  Society. I have just received Volume II; it is a magnificent work.”

  From Mr. John A. Mooney, New York City: “I beg to acknowledge with
  thanks Volume II of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, a handsome volume and one most creditable to the Society
  and to yourself.”

  From the Public Library, Portland, Me.: “The library has received
  your gift, Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  II, which is hereby gratefully acknowledged for the trustees. Alice
  C. Furbish, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Marcus Hanlon, New York City: “I have duly received Volume
  II of the Journal of the American-Irish Society for 1899. Would be
  glad to have a copy of Volume I of these exceedingly able and
  interesting reports.”

  From the Dartmouth College library: “The trustees have received a
  copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  II, a gift to this library which is hereby gratefully acknowledged.
  Respectfully, M. D. Bisbee, Librarian.”

  From Mr. M. D. Long, O’Neill, Nebraska: “I desire to acknowledge
  receipt of Volume II, Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, and I thank you for the same. The book is creditable alike
  to the cause, the author and the mechanic.”

  From Rev. John F. Cummins, Roslindale (Boston), Mass.: “The Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society which you so kindly
  forwarded to me reached here intact. I prize the volume very highly
  and I thank you exceedingly for your kindness.”

  From Mr. James Connolly, Coronado, Cal.: “Your Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society for 1899 received. It is a well
  edited and neatly printed and bound book, reflecting credit alike
  upon the Society’s officers, members and the race.”

  From J. H. Kane, M. D., Lexington, Mass.: “Have just received the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II. It is a
  very creditable production from the standpoints of typography,
  arrangement, information and general interest.”

  From J. D. Hanrahan, M. D., Rutland, Vt.: “I received the Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society a few days ago, for which
  please accept sincere thanks. I am sure you must have put a great
  deal of labor into it. It certainly does you credit.”

  From the Public Library, Los Angeles, Cal.: “The board of directors
  take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, for which please
  accept sincere thanks. Mary L. Jones, Clerk and Librarian.”

  From Col. Henry F. Donovan, Chicago, Ill.: “Please accept my thanks
  for the handsomely-bound Volume II of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, which came to hand to-day. I must
  congratulate you upon its general appearance and make-up.”

  From Col. James Quinlan, New York City: “I am in receipt of the
  second volume of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, for which please accept my sincere thanks. It is a most
  valuable work, for which the compiler deserves the credit and thanks
  of every member of the Society.”

  From Mr. D. P. Murphy, Jr., New York City: “I beg to acknowledge the
  receipt of your Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  with many thanks for your kindly remembrance, and to compliment you
  very highly upon the beauty and historical value of the work.”

  From Mr. John E. Lynch, Worcester, Mass.: “My Dear Mr. Murray:—I am
  pleased to acknowledge receipt of the second volume of the
  Proceedings of the American-Irish Historical Society. It is a finely
  prepared and executed volume. I congratulate you on its excellence.”

  From Rev. C. T. McGrath, Somerville, Mass.: “I write to acknowledge
  receipt of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  with which I am much pleased. Appreciating your noble work, and
  thankful for your kindness, I am yours sincerely, Chris. T.
  McGrath.”

  From the Librarian of Columbia University, New York City: “In behalf
  of the trustees of Columbia University, I hereby acknowledge, with
  thanks, the receipt of Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume II, as a gift to this library. James H. Canfield,
  Librarian.”

  From E. C. Richardson, librarian of Princeton University: “I am
  directed to convey to you the thanks of the trustees of Princeton
  University for your gift which has been received and placed in the
  library. I have the honor to be yours very truly, E. C. Richardson,
  Librarian.”

  From Mr. Edward J. McGuire, New York City: “I have received the
  annual volume of the American-Irish Historical Society. It is an
  admirable piece of work, upon which you are to be congratulated. I
  hope that some day you will reap the reward of your great labors in
  the cause.”

  From J. E. Lowery, M. D., Sopris, Colorado: “It gives me great
  pleasure to be able to acknowledge receipt of Volume II of our
  Journal, and to learn that the Society is so well fulfilling its
  mission. I congratulate you and the other executive officers upon
  your good work.”

  From Mr. T. J. O’Neill, Hotel Aquidneck, Newport, R. I.: “I beg to
  acknowledge for myself and my brother, E. C. O’Neill, the receipt of
  your Journal, embodying the work and progress of the Society for the
  year 1899. The volume is, indeed, carefully compiled and reflects
  credit upon you.”

  From the City Library, Oswego, N. Y.: “I write to acknowledge the
  receipt of a copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume II, 1899, for which favor we are under many
  obligations. Yours very respectfully, Robert Seeley Kelsey, City
  Librarian, Oswego, N. Y.”

  From the Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.: “The trustees of the
  Cambridge public library have received your very kind gift for the
  library, as per memorandum below, and return to you their grateful
  acknowledgment. William Taggard Piper, President. Received, Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II.”

  From the Redwood Library, Newport, R. I.: “The directors of the
  Redwood library take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II,
  presented by you to the library, for which they return their sincere
  thanks. Richard Bliss, Librarian.”

  From the State Library, Albany, N. Y.: “The library has received
  from you Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  II, for 1899. The gift, which is gratefully acknowledged, has been
  officially registered, and due credit will be given in the report to
  the legislature. Melvil Dewey, Director.”

  From the American Antiquarian Society: “The American Antiquarian
  Society has received your donation of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, 1899, for which I have
  the honor, on behalf of the council, to return a grateful
  acknowledgment. Edmund M. Barton, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Utica, N. Y.: “The trustees acknowledge
  with thanks the gift of Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume II, from Thomas Hamilton Murray. The same has been
  officially entered in the records of the library. Nicholas E.
  Devereux, President; C. M. Underhill, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Pierce Kent, New York City: “I beg to acknowledge, with
  many thanks, receipt of copy of Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume II, 1899, which you have kindly sent me.
  I congratulate you on the handsome work, and on the sterling and
  meritorious character of its literary contents.”

  From the New York public library, Astor, Lenox and Tilden
  foundations: “I am instructed by the trustees to acknowledge, with
  thanks, the receipt of Volume II of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, which you have been so kind as to
  present to this library. Very respectfully, J. S. Billings,
  Director.”

  From the Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C.: “I beg to
  acknowledge, with thanks, the receipt of the publication noted
  below, a gift to this library. Very respectfully, Herbert Putnam,
  Librarian of Congress. By Arthur R. Kimball, Chief of Order
  Division. Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  II.”

  From Mr. D. F. Leary, Springfield, Mass.: “Volume received. It
  reflects great credit on you for the executive ability shown by the
  very interesting manner in which you have recorded the doings of our
  Society. ‘The right man in the right place.’ Wish I could have a
  copy of first volume issued. Please put my name down for a copy if
  you have any more to distribute.”

  From Librarian Robert H. Kelley: “The New York Historical Society
  has received the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  by Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general, Volume II. Boston,
  1899; a gift from the American-Irish Historical Society, for which I
  am instructed to return a grateful acknowledgment.”

  From the Public Library, New Bedford, Mass: “I am directed by the
  trustees to return you their thanks for your donation of the Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, Bost., 1899,
  8vo, which has been placed in our library, and will be duly
  acknowledged in our next annual report. William L. Sayer,
  Secretary.”

  From Mr. T. J. Ackland, Boston, Mass.: “Many thanks for the Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society. It is a handsome book,
  and, better still, it is a most interesting and valuable work. You
  are deserving of great credit for your labors, which have given the
  members of the Society a record of its doings which is a model in
  its way.”

  From the Maryland Historical Society: “The Maryland Historical
  Society presents its acknowledgment and thanks to the American-Irish
  Historical Society for the gift to its library of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, by Thos. H. Murray,
  secretary-general. By order of the Society, Mendes Cohen,
  Corresponding Secretary.”

  From Librarian John D. Parsons: “The directors of the Newburyport
  [Mass.] public library acknowledge, with thanks, the receipt of the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, which
  will be placed with works of like nature and made available to the
  public. By order of the board, John D. Parsons, Librarian and
  Secretary.”

  From Rev. George F. Marshall, Milford, N. H.: “The second volume of
  the American-Irish Historical Journal to hand. It is a wonder,
  considering the age of the Society and its resources. A few more
  years’ work of the Society, and the mythical Anglo-Saxon and
  threadbare Scotch-Irish will have only a small place in the
  upbuilding of Yankeedom.”

  From Mr. William F. Clare, New York City: “I beg to acknowledge
  receipt of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society for
  1899. Thanking you for the same, and complimenting you upon its
  tasty appearance and the evidence of careful work, which is manifest
  upon the most cursory examination, I remain, yours, etc., W. F.
  Clare.”

  From Mr. Bernard Corr, Boston, Mass.: “The second volume of the
  American-Irish Historical Society is just received. From a hasty
  glance through its pages it seems to be quite comprehensive in its
  contents, and the make-up and typographical work are very
  creditable. Altogether it is a valuable historical document and you
  deserve great praise for your editorial work.”

  From Mr. T. B. Fitzpatrick, Boston, Mass.: “I received this morning
  a copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, and
  thank you sincerely for the precious volume. I shall value highly
  the possession of the records and essays it contains, and appreciate
  the satisfaction it must give the members to find these put in so
  convenient a form.”

  From Harvard College: “The president and fellows of Harvard College
  have received the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  by T. H. Murray, Volume II; a gift to the library of the university
  from Mr. Thomas H. Murray, for which they return grateful
  acknowledgment. Wm. C. Lane, Librarian. Gore Hall, Cambridge, May
  21, 1900.”

  From Mr. P. H. Coney, Topeka, Kan.: “Please accept my thanks for the
  splendid volume of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume II. I am very proud of it, and consider it one of
  the most valuable contributions to our history ever published. The
  Society deserves the support of all true Americans in the noble work
  it is pursuing.”

  From the Public Library, Worcester, Mass.: “The directors have
  received from you, as a gift to the library, Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society by Thomas Hamilton Murray, Volume
  II, for which they return their grateful acknowledgments. T. C.
  Mendenhall, President of the Board. Placed in the library. Samuel S.
  Green, Librarian.”

  From Hon. John J. Hayes, Boston, Mass.: “In acknowledging receipt of
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, allow me to
  add my gratitude for the superb work you have done with splendid
  intelligence and untiring energy. The men of our race are deeply
  indebted to you, and I trust your next volume will show a very large
  increase in membership.”

  From Librarian George William Harris of Cornell University: “I beg
  to acknowledge with best thanks the receipt of your gift to the
  library,—Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  II, 1899. Your continued remembrance of this library is gratefully
  appreciated, and we shall be glad to receive and preserve for
  reference the future volumes of the Journal.”

  From Mr. Edward A. McLaughlin, Boston, Mass.: “I have just received,
  by express, the second volume of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society. I had a chat with Colonel Linehan the other day,
  in which he spoke of the Journal and some of the articles contained
  therein. I congratulate you on the neat manner in which the Journal
  is gotten up. It marks the progress of the Society and does credit
  to its enterprising secretary-general.”

  From the University of California: “The Regents of the University of
  California acknowledge the receipt of the gift named below, for
  which I am instructed to return their grateful thanks. Very
  respectfully yours, W. A. McKowen, Acting Secretary. Placed in the
  library. J. D. Laymn, Assistant Librarian. Volume II, Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, 1899.”

  From Brown University: “The corporation of Brown University in
  Providence, R. I., have received the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume II, a gift to the University Library from
  Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general, for which the corporation
  return a grateful acknowledgment on the part of the university. H.
  L. Koopman, Librarian, for the president.”

  From the New Jersey Historical Society: “The New Jersey Historical
  Society has received from Mr. Thomas Hamilton Murray the Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, Boston, 1899, for
  which addition to its collections I am directed to present the
  society’s grateful acknowledgments. Very respectfully, your obedient
  servant, Henrietta R. Palmer, Librarian.”

  From Rev. Frank L. Phalen, minister of the Church of the Unity,
  Worcester, Mass.: “I am in receipt of Volume II of our Journal. I am
  sure it must bring pleasure to every member of our Society, and it
  certainly reflects credit upon our secretary-general. Some day I
  hope I may be able to offer an essay or address that will be worthy
  of the high purpose and splendid personnel of the Society.”

  From Mr. John J. Davis, Greenville, Penn.: “I am very grateful for
  the copy of Volume II of the Journal of the Society, which you sent
  me. I appreciate it very much. Careful scrutiny must have been
  exercised in the preparation of a work of this kind. It is indeed a
  work of priceless value, and it contains a fund of information for
  future reference which all the members will appreciate, I am sure.”

  From the State Librarian of New Hampshire: “In behalf of the
  trustees I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II, 1899, a gift from
  you to the New Hampshire State Library, and to extend thanks for the
  same. It will be their pleasure to give the book a fitting place
  upon the shelves of the library. Very truly yours, Arthur H. Chase,
  Librarian.”

  From Yale University: “The president and fellows of Yale University
  have received from Thomas Hamilton Murray, Esquire, the following
  gift to the library for which I am instructed to return their
  sincere thanks: ‘The Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, by Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general, Volume II.
  Boston, 1899.’ Very respectfully, A. Van Name, Librarian. New Haven,
  Conn., May 22, 1900.”

  From the State Librarian of Massachusetts: “I have the honor to
  acknowledge the receipt for the state library of Massachusetts of a
  copy of Volume II of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, and I beg that you will accept my thanks for the gift. We
  shall be grateful to continue to receive copies of all the
  publications of your Society as they may be issued. Yours most
  cordially, C. B. Tillinghast, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville (Ky.) _Daily Times_: “I
  thought I would take occasion to write to acknowledge the receipt of
  your recent annual publication. It is very fine, indeed, and I want
  to compliment you on its splendid typographical appearance. It is
  carefully edited, and I think reflects great credit upon you and the
  Society. The indexing is perfect, and the chronology detailing the
  work heretofore done could not, in my opinion, be improved upon.”

  From Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.: “Accept my apology for not
  acknowledging receipt of the second volume of the American-Irish
  Historical Society work before now. The fact is, I have been East,
  and only came across the volume to-day among the accumulation of
  matter that had piled up in my absence. The work is creditable in
  all particulars, and will make a suitable companion to the first
  volume, issued last year. I congratulate you upon its appearance and
  completeness.”

  From Mr. Edward J. McMahon, Worcester, Mass.: “I beg leave to
  acknowledge the receipt from you of Volume II of the Society’s
  Journal, and, in thanking you for this most valuable addition to my
  library, I desire to express something of the pleasure which its
  perusal has given to me this peaceful Sunday afternoon. I am sure
  that my interest in the Society and in its grand work has been
  immensely quickened and that, in the future, I shall try to give
  much more tangible evidence of my membership than I have in the
  past.”

  From the Public Library, Sacramento, Cal.: “The board of trustees of
  Sacramento Free Public Library desire to return their thanks for
  your generous donation of Volume II of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society. The book has been placed on the
  shelf with the other publications, free to the reading public. By
  order of the board. Samuel H. Gerrish, Secretary. In accordance with
  a resolution of the board of trustees, I hereby acknowledge that I
  have received the above named book. Caroline G. Hancock, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Charles McCarthy, Jr., Portland, Me.: “I thank you very
  much for the second volume of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society which I received a few days ago, but have not yet
  had time to read much of. I did, however, read Dr. Emmet’s paper on
  ‘Irish Emigration During the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries,’
  and your ‘Irish Chapter in the History of Brown University,’ both of
  which place not only the members of the Society under obligation to
  you, but the Irish race as well. Such papers cannot but be of
  service in wearing away the prejudice of many of our American
  fellow-citizens.”

  From Mr. Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake City, Utah: “Dear Mr.
  Murray:—You must excuse my delay in acknowledging the receipt of the
  second volume of the American-Irish Historical Society. I received
  it and was very much pleased, indeed, at its completeness and feel
  that you are to be very highly complimented on your work. It is a
  credit to a society that might have been in existence for a hundred
  years. If at any time the funds of the Society should get into such
  a shape that a call would be necessary, I will be only too pleased
  to respond for any amount that you might suggest.”

  From the librarian of the Long Island Historical Society, Brooklyn,
  N. Y.: “It is with pleasure that I acknowledge your Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume II. From the note at the
  end of the volume, I presume that it will be impossible for us to
  secure your first volume, which we much regret, as it is the kind of
  work that should find a permanent home in a library such as ours,
  which is for reference only. Would it be possible for us to obtain
  any other of your writings, such as the Irish Schoolmasters in the
  Colonies and the Irish Washingtons at Home and Abroad? We would
  appreciate any publication of this kind. We have a library of over
  64,000 volumes.”

  From Hon. James F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H., state library
  commissioner: “BRO. MURRAY:—I am in receipt of the second volume of
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, and I wish to
  congratulate you upon its excellent appearance. It shows
  conscientious work on your part. The Chronological Record of the
  Society is a most excellent thing, and the index that you give is
  certainly matchless. I think an index is the most important thing
  about a book of this character, and your work in that regard has
  fulfilled every desire. There is no danger of having an index
  contain too much, but there is great danger of having it contain too
  little. Your earnest work is visible on every page of this volume,
  and I wish to thank you, as a member of the Society, for your
  conscientious labors.”




                             GENERAL INDEX.


 Address of G. Stanley Hall, Ph. D., LL. D., President of Clark
    University, 38.

 Address of U. S. Senator Carter, 28.

 Annual Address of the President-General, 27.

 Annual Banquet of the Society, 24.

 Annual Meeting of the Society, 19.

 Annual Report of the Secretary-General, 20.

 Annual Report of the Treasurer-General, 23.


 Chronology of the Society, 153.


 Daughters of the American Revolution, Letters from, 49, 50.


 Historical Papers of the Year, 52.


 Membership Roll, 186.


 Necrology of the Society, 181.


 Observance of the Anniversary of the Battle of Bunker Hill, 41.

 Observance of the Anniversary of the Battle of Lexington, 30.

 Observance of the Anniversary of the Battle of Rhode Island, 46.

 Officers of the Society, 5.


 President-General’s Annual Address, 27.

 Publications of the Society, 150.


 Secretary-General’s Annual Report, 20.

 Sons of the Revolution, Courtesies by, 51.

 State Vice-Presidents of the Society, 6, 7.


 Treasurer-General’s Annual Report, 23.




                           ANALYTICAL INDEX.


 Aaron Burr befriends John Daly Burke, 67.

 Abercrombie, Rev. Robert, Irish Protestants of Pelham, Mass., object to
    him because he is a Scotchman, 116, 117.

 Adair, Gen. John, receives thanks of the Kentucky legislature, 82, 83.

 Adams, Gen. John, a graduate of West Point, 109.

 Adams, President John, 62, 63, 64, 66, 67.

 Adams, Prof. H. B., Johns Hopkins University, 155.

 Alabama, Gov. O’Neal of, 106.

 Alabama, Hon. Emmet O’Neal of, 155.

 Alabama, Northern district of, 155.

 Alabama, The Emerald Guards of, 106.

 Alabama, The Montgomery Grays of, 106.

 Alabama, The Sixth, 106.

 Alien and Sedition Laws, 63, 64, 65.

 Allen, Gen. Ethan, experiences Irish hospitality, 88.

 Alley, John R., Boston, Mass., death of, 168, 184.

 All Hallows College, Dublin, 183.

 _America Dissected_, a work by James MacSparran, 53, 54, 59, 60.

 American Antiquarian Society, 155.

 American Colonies, The, 115.

 American Embassy in Paris, 68.

 American History, French chapter in, 23.

 American History, The Irish Element in, 51.

 American-Irish Historical Society, Paper on, 136‒140;
   Chronology of, 153.

 American-Irish Historical Society, Publications of the, 150, 151, 152.

 American Journalism, Men of Irish Blood in, 22.

 American Journalism, Men of Irish Blood who Have attained Distinction
    in, 62.

 American News Company, 194.

 American Newspapers, Irishmen Among the Pioneers in the Establishment
    of Early, 62.

 American Oriental Society, 199.

 American Patriot Army, The, 6.

 American Provincial Forces, The, 110.

 American Raad, The, 9, 15.

 American Revolution, The, 6, 15, 16, 21, 22, 142, 156, 161, 210, 212.

 American Revolution, Daughters of the, 16.

 American Revolution, First Naval Engagement of, 142.

 American Revolution, Sons of the, 142, 156, 161, 210.

 _American Statesmen_ series, 65.

 _American_, The Baltimore, 96.

 Amherst College, Mass., 117.

 Ancestors of Gen. John Sullivan, 168.

 Ancestry of Andrew Jackson, 9.

 Ancestry of President McKinley, 15.

 Ancient Order of Hibernians, 12.

 Andrews, E. Benj., (D. D., L.L. D.) President of Brown University, 37,
    164, 166, 167, 174.

 Andrew Jackson, 9, 98, 109.

 “Anglo-Saxon” Absurdity, The, 28.

 Anniversary Celebration of the Battle of Bunker Hill, 13, 14, 41, 42,
    43, 44, 45.

 Annual Banquet of the Society, 24.

 Annual Meeting of the Society, at Sherry’s, 8, 19.

 Annual Report of the Secretary-General, 20, 21, 22, 23.

 Annual Report of the Treasurer-General, 23.

 Antietam, Battle of, 71, 103.

 Antrim, Ireland, 90, 115.

 Appomattox, 95.

 Aquidneck, The, Newport, R. I., Meeting at, 46, 51.

 Archæological Institute of America, 199.

 Archibald McSparran sails from Ireland, 60.

 Archives of the Society, 27.

 Archives, The Pennsylvania, 48.

 _Argus_, The Albany, 71.

 Arkansas troops, Cleburne assists in raising a regiment of, 107.

 Aristotle (quoted), 39.

 Armstrong, Col. James, 6, 10, 97, 186.

 Army Corps Association, Second, 9.

 Army of Northern Virginia, 97, 100.

 Army of Tennessee, 100.

 Arnold’s _Vital Record of Rhode Island_, 134.

 Association Artistique et Litteraire de Saint-Patrice, of Paris, 12,
    48.

 _Atlantis, The Antediluvian World_, 8.

 Athy, Andrew, Worcester, Mass., death of, 167, 184.

 “Attempts upon the Liberties of America,” 115.

 Augusta (Ga.) _Chronicle_, 11, 73, 95.


 Bacon, Bishop, 183, 184.

 Bacon, John, killed in action, April 19, 1775, 159.

 Bacons, The Irish, Settlers at Dedham, Mass. (1640), 12.

 Baker, Gen. Alpheus, “the silver-tongued orator of the Chattahoochee,”
    106.

 Baird, Henry Carey, Philadelphia, Pa., 158.

 Ballibay, Ireland, Colony from, 117.

 Ballyshannon, Ireland, 110, 113.

 Baltimore _American_, 96.

 Baltimore, Lord, 54.

 Bangor _Commercial_, 196.

 Bank of Ireland, 182.

 Banquet of the Society, April 19, 1900, 12.

 Banquet of the Society, June 18, 1900, 14, 43, 44, 45.

 Banquet, The Annual, 24.

 Barber’s _Historical Collections of Massachusetts_, 113.

 Bardstown, “the Original Seat of Catholicity in Kentucky,” 83, 86.

 Barrett, Hugh Cargill, 112.

 Barrington, R. I., Bicknell’s Sketches of, 130.

 Barrington, R. I., Matthew Watson, an Irish Settler of, 130, 167.

 Barry, Very Rev. John E., Concord, N. H., Death of, 17, 183.

 Barry, Wm. T., of Kentucky, 82.

 Battle of Antietam, 71, 103.

 Battle of Belmont, 108.

 Battle of Bunker Hill, 13, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 110, 116, 123, 125, 159,
    161, 177.

 Battle of Bunker Hill, English accounts of the, 44.

 Battle of Chickamauga, 108.

 Battle of Churubusco, 97.

 Battle of Franklin, 104, 108, 109.

 Battle of Fredericksburg, 103, 104, 105.

 Battle of Gaines’ Mill, 103.

 Battle of Gettysburg, 98, 103, 105, 107, 145.

 Battle of Jonesboro’, 108.

 Battle of Lake Erie, 169.

 Battle of Lexington, 11, 23, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 116, 141, 159,
    174.

 Battle of Missionary Ridge [also sometimes mentioned as Missionaries’
    Ridge], 108.

 Battle of New Orleans, 82, 84.

 Battle of Olustee, 106.

 Battle of Rhode Island, 16, 46, 50, 176, 177.

 Battle of Seven Pines, 106.

 Battle of Shiloh, 107.

 Battle of Spottsylvania, 106.

 Battle of Tippecanoe, 84.

 Battle of the Wilderness, 106.

 Battlefields in North America, 28.

 Battlefields of the Union, 71.

 Battleship _Maine_, Action on Loss of the, 165, 166.

 Battleship _Texas_, 157, 158.

 Belknap, Rear Admiral (U. S. N.), 162.

 Bell, Gen. George, Washington, D. C., 171, 186.

 Bellevue Hospital Medical College, 182.

 Bellevue Hotel, Boston, Reception and Banquet at, 178.

 Belmont, Battle of, 105.

 Bennett, James Gordon, 72, 74.

 Berkeley, George, Services to Education of, 56, 138.

 Bernon, Mary and Eva, 58.

 Betts, Rev. George C., Goshen, N. Y., 155, 186.

 Bicknell’s _Sketches of Barrington_, R. I., 130.

 Binns Family, The, of Philadelphia, 70.

 Bishop Berkeley, of Cloyne, 56.

 “Bivouac of the Dead,” The, 74.

 Blakeley, Capt. Johnston (U. S. N.), 17, 177.

 _Blakeley_, U. S. Torpedo-Boat, 17, 177.

 _Blue Mountain Valley_, The Ship (1776), 91.

 Bodfish, Rev. Joshua P., 14, 48, 186.

 Boer Delegates, Receptions to, 13.

 Boer Envoys in Providence, R. I., Boston and Springfield, Mass., 13.

 Boers, The War against the, 9.

 Bolton, Rev. J. Gray, Philadelphia, Pa., 155.

 Bombardment of Khiva, 75.

 Boone, Daniel, 80, 83.

 Boston Charitable Irish Society, 10.

 Boston _Globe_, 11, 12, 14, 166, 179, 197, 198, 208.

 Boston, Evacuation of, 10.

 Boston _Herald_, 183.

 Boston, Irish Relief Furnished, 139.

 Boston Port Bill, The, 35.

 Boston Press Club, 10.

 Boston School Board, 15, 182, 189.

 Boston _Sunday Globe_, Symposium in, 166.

 Boudinot, Elias, 90.

 Bowdoin College, 181.

 Boyle, Hon. John, of Kentucky, 84.

 Boyle, Hon. Patrick J., Mayor of Newport, R. I., 6, 8, 10, 16, 32, 47,
    177, 178, 186.

 Brady, Rev. Cyrus Townsend, Philadelphia, Pa., 9, 154, 187.

 Brady, Hon. James D., of Virginia, 184.

 Breen, Ex-Mayor John, Lawrence, Mass., 8, 34, 187.

 Brennan, Hon. James F., Peterborough, N. H., 6, 12, 32, 33, 47, 51,
    168, 178, 187.

 “Brick Mansions of Old Manhattan Families,” 132.

 British Acts Aimed at Town-Meetings, 35, 36.

 British Cruelty, Eleven Thousand American Victims of, 144.

 British Parliament, Arbitrary Conduct of the, 35.

 British Parliament, John Mitchell elected to the, 109.

 British Repulsed by Sullivan, 46.

 British Sloop of War _Margaretta_ is captured, 141, 142, 143.

 British Sloop of War _Reindeer_, 17.

 Broderick, Rev. Thomas W., Hartford, Conn., Death of, 16, 183.

 Brooklyn _Eagle_, The, 72.

 Brown, Andrew, Publisher of the Philadelphia _Federal Gazette_, 68.

 Brown, Hon. Joseph E., 99.

 Brown University, 49, 138, 164, 166, 167.

 Bryan, John, an Officer in the American Revolution, 15, 48.

 Buck, Col. Ebenezer, 161.

 Buck, Col. Jonathan, 161.

 Buffalo, N. Y., Diocese of, 183.

 Bulgarian War, The, 75.

 Bunker Hill, Irish in the Patriot Ranks at the Battle of, 41, 110, 116,
    123, 125, 159, 161, 177.

 Bunker Hill Monument Association, 14, 48.

 Burgoyne and Clinton, 44.

 Burgoyne, General, Surrender of, 169.

 Burnside, General, 104.

 Burr, Aaron, 67, 87.

 Burk, John Daly, Publisher of the First Daily Paper in Boston, Mass.,
    65, 66, 67, 68.

 Burk, John Junius, 67.

 Burke, Judge A. E., of South Carolina, 98.

 Burns, Timothy, a New Jersey soldier of the Revolution, 91.

 Butler, Col. Pierce M., Killed at the Head of the Palmetto Regiment,
    97, 98.

 Butler, Deacon John, “First Child of Irish Parentage Born in Woburn,
    Mass.,” 160.

 Butler Family, The, in American Wars, 84.

 Butler, Benjamin F., 128, 183, 184.

 Butler, Gen. M. C., 97, 98.

 Butler, Gen. Richard, of Pennsylvania, 84.

 Butler, Gen. Percival, 84.

 Butler, James, The Planter of Lancaster, Mass., 160.

 Butlers, History of the, 97.

 Butts Hill, Portsmouth, R. I., Old Fort on, 16, 49, 50.


 _Cæsar’s Column_, 8.

 Caldwell, Hannah, 94.

 Caldwell, Rev. James, a Patriot of the American Revolution, 89 to 94.

 Caldwell, John, 89, 90.

 Caldwell, Rev. John Todd, 90.

 Caldwell Settlement, 90.

 Calhoun, Hon. John C., 90, 180.

 Calhoun Monument, Charleston, S. C., 180.

 California, Hibernia Bank of San Francisco, 149.

 California, James Connolly of Coronado, 9, 37, 145‒147, 189.

 California, Men of Irish Blood in, 147.

 California State and City Histories, 145, 146.

 California, The Historical Place of Irishmen in, 148, 149.

 California, The Irishman’s Part in the Life of, 145, 146, 147, 148,
    149.

 California, The Knights of St. Patrick of San Francisco, 148, 149.

 California, _The Precursors of the Pioneers_, 146.

 California, The Society’s Field in, 145, 146, 147.

 Calvert Family, The, 54.

 Campbell, Col. John, 84.

 Candler, Hon. A. D., 100.

 “Can Ireland Ever be Reconciled to the British Crown?” 11.

 Cape Breton, Isle of, 156.

 Capen, President Elmer H., of Tufts College, 12, 32, 33, 40.

 Capron, Congressman, of Rhode Island, Letter from, 38.

 Carey, Mathew, of Philadelphia, Pa., 68, 78.

 Cargill, Hugh, a Patriot of 1775, 12, 40, 110, 113.

 Cargill, Rebecca, 111, 113.

 Carlist War, The, 75.

 Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton, 63, 84.

 Carroll, Hugh J., Pawtucket, R. I., 153, 163, 188.

 Carroll, John Lee, Letter from, 36, 37.

 Carroll, Thomas, Reads a Paper before the Essex Institute of Salem,
    Mass., 11.

 Carter, Hon. Thomas H., 8, 19, 24, 28, 29, 178, 188.

 Cary, Col. Henry, 54.

 Casey, Col. Thomas, 84.

 Cassidy, Michael, a Soldier of the Revolution, 83.

 Cassidy, William, of the Albany (N. Y.) _Atlas_ and _Argus_, 71.

 Catholic Diocese of Buffalo, N. Y., 183.

 Catholic Diocese of Hartford, Conn., 22.

 Catholic Diocese of Manchester, N. H., 17, 184.

 Catholic Diocese of Portland, Me., 14, 184.

 Catholic Diocese of Providence, R. I., 48.

 Catholic Diocese of Springfield, Mass., 22.

 Catholic Families, Early, in Kentucky, 86.

 _Catholic Sentinel_, Portland, Ore., 14.

 Catholic Settlers of Maryland, 83, 84.

 Catholic Settlers in Kentucky, 78.

 Catholic University, Washington, D. C., 5, 37, 155, 189, 193, 195, 210.

 Cavanagh, Michael, Washington, D. C., Death of, 14, 47, 182.

 Celtic Medical Society, New York, 209.

 “Celts from Devon and Cornwall” Settle at Portsmouth, N. H., 126.

 Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa., 5.

 Chaplin, H. W., Boston, Mass., 158.

 Characteristics of the Irish Race, 38.

 Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, 63.

 Charleston, S. C., Hibernian Society of, 10, 96.

 Charleston, S. C., _News and Courier_, 179, 180.

 Charleston, S. C., St. Patrick’s Society of, 10.

 Charlestown (Mass.) _Advertiser_, 183.

 Charitable Irish Society, Boston, 10, 179, 195.

 Charlestown (Mass.) _Enterprise_, The, 13.

 Chartier’s Valley, Penn., 120.

 Chase, Arthur H., State Librarian of New Hampshire, 158.

 Chester County, Pennsylvania, 15.

 Chicago _Eagle_, The, 192.

 Chickamauga, Battle of, 108.

 Chronology of the American-Irish Historical Society, 153.

 Church of England, 53, 55, 58, 117.

 Church of Scotland, 117.

 Cincinnati, Society of the, 15, 48, 155.

 Civil War, The American, 75, 123, 124, 141, 182, 196.

 Clancey, James, a New Jersey Soldier of the Revolution, 91.

 Clark, Abraham, 90.

 Clark University, President Hall of, 12, 32, 33, 38, 40.

 Clary, Charles H., of Hallowell, Me., 168.

 Clary, John, of Newcastle, N. H., 168.

 Cleburne’s Division, 108.

 Cleburne, Gen. Patrick R., 104, 107.

 Clinton, DeWitt, 71.

 Cloyne, Ireland, 56.

 Cobb’s Brigade at Fredericksburg, 104.

 Cochrane, Gen. John, New York City, 154, 159, 163, 184.

 Coddington, Mrs., 58.

 Cogan, Patrick, a New Hampshire Soldier in the Revolution, 123.

 “Coleraine in the Province of Ulster,” 133.

 Cole, Rev. Fred B., 15, 48.

 College of New Jersey, 90.

 College of William and Mary, 155.

 Collins, Hon. Patrick A., 21, 27, 77, 189.

 Colonial Laws, Curiosities of the, 12.

 Colonial Records, The Society Engaged in Searching the, 27.

 Colonial Wars, Society of, 156, 161.

 “Colony of Rhode Island,” 54.

 Color-bearer Patrick Lennard of the Palmetto Regiment, 98.

 _Columbian_, The New York, 71.

 Columbia University, 155, 167.

 Committee of Correspondence in Boston, Mass., 115.

 Conanicut, Island of, in Narragansett Bay, 59.

 Conaty, Rt. Rev. Thomas J., 155, 189.

 Concord, Mass., the Stratton Farm, 111, 112.

 Concord, Mass., Records Saved, 110.

 Concord, Mass., Greetings from, 166.

 Concord (N. H.) _Monitor_, 153.

 Condon, E. O’Meagher, 25, 34, 44, 143, 167, 168, 175, 189.

 Confederate Armies, The, 97.

 Confederate Assault on the Federal Trenches at Franklin, Tenn., 104.

 Confederate Banner, The, 95.

 Congress, Continental, 68, 90.

 Congress, Proceedings of, reported by Mathew Carey, 68.

 Congress votes to refund Matthew Lyon’s fine, 87.

 Connecticut, _Daily Democrat_ of Waterbury, 200.

 Connecticut, Ex-Governor Waller of, 155, 165, 197.

 Connecticut, Ninth Regiment of, 197.

 Connecticut, Putnam’s Brigade from, 161.

 Connecticut Valley Historical Society, 196.

 Connecticut, Waterbury Board of Education, 197.

 Conner, City Marshal John E., Chicopee, Mass., Death of, 170, 185.

 Conner, Col. Freeman, 124.

 Connolly, James, of Coronado, Cal., 9, 37, 145‒147, 189.

 Connolly, Thomas, “a Fifer in Clark’s Regiment,” 166.

 Constitution of the United States, 156.

 Continental Army, The, 124, 125.

 Continental Congress, The, 68, 90.

 _Commercial Advertiser_, The New York, 74.

 Cooke, Rev. Michael J., Fall River, Mass., 17, 189.

 Corcoran, Gen. Michael, 182.

 Corcoran’s Legion, 207.

 Cork County (Ireland), 116.

 Cornwallis, Lord, Surrender of, 169.

 Corr, Bernard, Boston, Mass., Paper by, 168, 189.

 Cotton Mather and his Disciples, 137.

 Cotton, Nathaniel, 58.

 Council Meeting at Newport, R. I., 177.

 Council of the Society is entertained at Dinner by Hon. John D.
    Crimmins, New York City, 17.

 Council of the Society, Seventeenth Meeting of, 17.

 County Tipperary (Ireland), 183.

 Courtenay, Edward, of Charleston, S. C., 96.

 Coveney, Col. Jeremiah W., postmaster of Boston, 160, 185.

 Crimmins, Hon. John D., 5, 17, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 161, 166, 171, 172,
    173, 174, 178, 190.

 Crimmins, Lieut. Martin L. (U. S. A.), 9, 174, 190,

 Crockett, Davy, 109.

 Croghan, Major, A Noted Soldier, 83, 85.

 Cromwell’s Conquest of Ireland, 122.

 Cromwell, Oliver and Henry, 122.

 Cuban Insurrection, The, 75.

 Cummings, Dr. William F., Rutland, Vt., 21, 174, 185.

 Cummins, Rev. John F., Roslindale, Mass., Banquet to, 17, 18, 190.

 Cunningham, James, 6, 190.

 Curtin, Jeremiah, Translator of the Works of Sienkiewicz, 190.


 _Daily Advertiser_, Rochester, N. Y., 71.

 Daly, Hon. Joseph F., 11, 25, 26, 191.

 Dana, Charles A., of the N. Y. _Sun_, 74.

 Danaher, Hon. Franklin M., 26, 191.

 Darby Field, An Irish Pioneer of New Hampshire, 122, 123.

 “Dark and Bloody Ground,” The, 83.

 Daughters of the American Revolution, 16, 180.

 “David Hamilton, An Irish Soldier of the American Revolution,” 21.

 David O’Killia [O’Kelly], “The Irishman,” 154.

 Davis, Governor, of Rhode Island, 183.

 Davis, Jefferson, 109.

 Dean Berkeley Arrives in Rhode Island in 1729, 56.

 Death of President-General Meade, 160.

 Declaration of Independence, 68, 70, 139.

 DeCourcy, Charles A., Lawrence, Mass., 153, 191.

 DeCremont, M. le Comte, 12, 47.

 Dedham, Mass., The Irish Bacons who Settled at, 159.

 Delaware, Constitutional Convention of, 192.

 Delegates, Virginia House of, 8.

 _Democratic Press_, The, 70.

 _Diligence_ and _Tapnaguish_, British Cruisers, Captured by the
    Patriots, 143.

 Diocese of Buffalo, N. Y., 183.

 Diocese of Hartford, Conn., 22.

 Diocese of Manchester, N. H., 17, 184.

 Diocese of Portland, Me., 14, 184.

 Diocese of Providence, R. I., 48.

 Diocese of Springfield, Mass., 22.

 Donahoe, Col. John P., 6, 26, 155, 192.

 _Donahoe’s Magazine_, 9, 212.

 Donahoe, Patrick, of the _Pilot_, 76, 192.

 Donnelly, Hon. Ignatius, 8, 12, 158.

 Donovan, Dr. Henry V., Lawrence, Mass., Death of, 162, 185.

 Dougherty, Thomas, of Kentucky, 82.

 Dowager Queen, A Narraganset