settlements to discover the White Mountains. That he was a useful
citizen is evident from the provincial papers. How many American Fields
are descended from him cannot be determined, but if there are any, there
isn’t much doubt that they will locate the birthplace of their ancestor
in Ulster. This fad extends even to some children of the modern Irish.
The illustrious “Tim” Campbell, ex-member of congress from New York, has
been classified as of “Scotch-Irish” descent, and recently a young man
named Quinn, of the first generation born here, said, “His father was a
Scotch-Irishman from Kilkenny, in the north of Ireland.” A little rough
on the city paved with marble, but such is fad.

A good, sturdy representative of the Fields to-day in New Hampshire, as
Irish in blood as Darby Field was, is the Hon. John H. Field, who was a
member of the state senate in 1899‒1900. His home is Nashua. He is of
the faith of his fathers.

Darby Kelly was the ancestor of many American Kellys. His descendants
are almost innumerable. Like Darby Field, he, too, was a soldier, as
well as a schoolmaster and farmer. Gen. Benjamin F. Kelly, of West
Virginia, was his grandson; the latter acquired distinction in the Civil
War. The name Darby Kelly appears on the muster rolls of company and
regiment from 1748 to the fall of Wolfe and Montcalm.

Of the Patricks, Patrick O’Flynn possessed a military record his
offspring may well take pride in. His name appears quite often in the
short wars preceding the struggle for independence. He represented the
town of Bedford at Bunker Hill and served through the long war which
ended at Yorktown. At its close he went West, dying in Illinois. His
name appears on the United States pension rolls for 1825, with his
company and regiment.

Another was Patrick Cogan. He was quartermaster of the First New
Hampshire regiment, serving in that capacity under Stark, Cilley and
Reid. He died in the service in 1778. His regiment was in Sullivan’s
brigade at Ticonderoga in 1777. He represented Sullivan’s town, Durham.
Stephen Cogan, possibly a relative, was a selectman in the same town in
1780, and with him were Joseph, William and Joseph Cogan, Jr.

A namesake, if not a relative of Darby Field, was Patrick Field, a
soldier in the Continental army. Patrick Guinlan was teaching school in
Concord before 1770. He is given mention in Bouton’s history of that
place.

A well-known town in the south of Ireland is Dungarvan, and a well-known
locality in Concord is “Garvin’s Falls,” just south of the city, on the
Merrimack. The falls are named for Patrick Garvin, one of the first
settlers. His name appears frequently as one of the defenders of the
garrison against the Indians.

New Hampshire furnished to Iowa one of her most distinguished sons, in
the person of the Hon. James W. Grimes, who acquired a national
reputation during the Civil War. One of the first, if not the very
first, of that name in New Hampshire was Patrick Grimes.

Patrick Gault was the ancestor of some of New Hampshire’s substantial
citizens. His name appears early in the provincial papers. As much can
be said of Patrick Taggart and his descendants.

Patrick White was the first of his line in the old Granite state. He
came to Peterborough before 1740. Gen. Daniel M. White, commander of the
New Hampshire National Guard in 1894, was one of his descendants.

Patrick Orr is a reminder of the slogan of 1798, “Remember William Orr.”
Many useful citizens of the Granite state bear this name. It is not now
so common as it was fifty or seventy-five years ago. John Orr served
seven terms in the state senate, his legislative career ending in 1804.

Patrick Griffin represented a name as common here now as it is in
Ireland. Simon G. Griffin, brevet major-general, was a New Hampshire
soldier with a fine record in the Civil War.

Cornelius Connor represented a name famous in Ireland’s annals and
familiar to the readers of New Hampshire state and provincial papers.

It is first mentioned in 1710. The occasion was the payment of a bill
presented by him for moccasins, so it is fair to presume he was a
shoemaker. The name Connor, or Conner, has been well known in the town
of Exeter for nearly 200 years. An Exeter man, possibly a descendant of
Cornelius, was Col. Freeman Conner, who commanded the Forty-fourth New
York regiment in the Civil War. He was also assistant postmaster of
Chicago under the late James A. Sexton, during the administration of
President Benjamin Harrison. J. M. Connor, of Hopkinton, is one of the
prominent grangers in New Hampshire, and an authority on agricultural
matters.

James O’Conner, a native of Ireland, and a surgeon in the Continental
army, was among the first settlers in the town of Sanbornton. One of his
descendants went to the East Indies and was traffic manager of the
Ganges canal in 1869. Cornelius Connor is the first of the name to
appear on the provincial records. The family has been prolific—for the
Connors are numerous—and is looked upon now as a distinctive New
Hampshire name.

Another of the “Cons” was Cornelius Driscoll. His name appears first in
1715, attached to a petition praying for the settlement of a minister in
Dover. The name is spelled Drisco, but there is no question about it
being Driscoll, for two reasons: first, the given name Cornelius, as
well as there also being a Teage Driscoll; “Tim” is the English of
Teage; and second, the word Bristol is spelled Bristo. The name is still
spelled Drisco by people bearing it. Later it appears spelled properly,
“Driscoll,” in the state papers, but an interrogation mark is placed
after the name, which is evidence of the mutilation of Irish names by
those not conversant with their character. Teage Drisco’s name appears
on the records of the town of Exeter in 1664, Cornelius Driscoe in 1725,
and John Drisco in 1710. “Driscoll Hill,” in Francestown, is a locality
spoken of in the _Granite Monthly_ for August, 1897. Cornelius Drisco
was one of the proprietors of the town of Gilmanton in 1727. Still
another “Con,” who appears often in the records, is Cornelius Lary. He
was in Exeter as early as 1674. Like other old Irish surnames, it was
twisted out of shape by the English scribes, so that in various places
it is spelled O’Leary, Lary, and Lear.

As is well-known, this is one of the great south of Ireland names. It
would be of great interest to “Con’s” countrymen had he kept a diary
relating his experience in those days. “The Curse of Crummill” was on
the lips of many at that time, perhaps on his. Thirty-six years later,
in 1710, the names of Daniel, Samuel, Thomas, and Cornelius Lary appear,
perhaps the sons of the emigrant. It is still common in Maine as well as
in New Hampshire as Lary. Col. Tobias Lear, of Portsmouth, was
Washington’s secretary. Whether his name was Leary originally, cannot be
determined. He married a daughter of Col. Pierse Long. The latter was
the son of Pierse Long who came to Portsmouth from Limerick, Ireland.
Colonel Long was with Sullivan at the capture of Newcastle, and
commanded a regiment in the Continental army.

McDuffee has been a well-known New Hampshire family name for one hundred
and fifty years. Col. John McDuffee commanded a regiment in the
Continental army and some of the most substantial business men in the
state are of the same clan. The “Cons” were also represented in this
family in the person of Cornelius Duffee, whose name appears in the
index of the provincial papers.

Of the Michaels, the most distinguished was Gen. Michael McClary. He was
the grandson of Andrew McClary, who came over in 1726, to Epsom, and the
nephew of Maj. Andrew McClary, who fell at Bunker Hill, and of Lieut.
John McClary, who was killed in action at Saratoga. He was an ensign at
Bunker Hill, and was appointed captain in the Continental army later. He
filled many positions in civil life. He was the first adjutant-general
of New Hampshire under the new constitution, and also served as United
States marshal. The family was prominent in state affairs. John McClary
was a member of the governor’s council five years before 1785, and of
the senate six years. Michael McClary served in the senate twelve years,
and James H. McClary, two years; Michael was elected, but resigned, and
James H. was chosen in convention to fill the vacancy.

The original emigrant, Andrew, came over on the same vessel with James
Harney. Their friendship was carried down to the third generation in the
name of James Harney McClary. There were others of the same name in the
state, but not of the same family. Whether as Cleary, Clary, or
Clery—with or without the Mac or the O—the name is as Irish as the
shamrock.

Another of the Michaels who, if not as distinguished as the one
mentioned, was a useful citizen, was Michael Dwyer, who was one of the
first settlers of Holderness, N. H. His name appears frequently in the
state records; he was selectman of his town, and represented it in the
state legislature, and it is evident that he was prominent in business
and political affairs in his section of the state.

A contemporary of his in Holderness was Capt. Bryan McSweeny, a veteran
of the old French, Indian, and Revolutionary wars.

Others of the name of Dwyer were in New Hampshire before Michael’s day,
for the name of Edward Dwyer appears on the Exeter town records in 1695,
also that of James Dwyer. Time has probably changed the name to Dyer.

Michael Johnston was one of the first two settlers of Haverhill, N. H.,
going there from Haverhill, Mass. His brother, Col. Charles Johnston, in
point of character, it is written, was the most prominent of Haverhill’s
first settlers. He also had a son Michael. Whether Irish or Scottish,
Johnston is the English for McShane or McIan.

The name Carroll, borne by Maryland’s “first citizen,” was represented
among the New Hampshire Michaels, in the person of Michael Carroll. A
county also bears his name, and it is quite common in New Hampshire. The
New Hampshire national bank examiner is the Hon. E. H. Carroll, and the
labor commissioner is Col. L. H. Carroll. A brother of the bank
commissioner is superintendent of schools in Worcester, Mass.

Michael Annis, perhaps Ennis, bore the name of the man who built the
first house in the town of Warner. His father came from Enniskillen “in
Great Britain,” so the history reads, but Ireland would be more correct
geographically. Adding the Mac and spelling the name properly it would
be McGuinis, McInnis, McGinnis, McGuinness, or Magenis.

Michael Chatterton was the first of the Michaels to appear on the New
Hampshire records. He was one of the servants sent over by Capt. John
Mason, coming at the same time as Darby Field, between 1631 and 1640.
With him was William Dermit. Albee, the historian of Newcastle, wrote
that Portsmouth’s first settlers were Celts from Devon and Cornwall.
There was more or less trade between the colony in its early days and
Limerick and Kilkenny, Ireland, Kilkenny rugs and Limerick bacon being
spoken of.

Michael Clark represented another widely known New Hampshire family
name, well represented at the bar, on the bench, and in the upper and
lower branches of congress.

Michael Fitzgerald was one of the great Norman Irish clan which in time
became more Irish than the Irish themselves. Edward Fitzgerald, one of
the first settlers of Boscawen, was reputed to be well educated and
prosperous. Col. John Fitzgerald was Washington’s favorite aid.

As a rule, the New Hampshire descendants of the Fitzgeralds have divided
the name. Some are known as Fitzes, others as Geralds.

Michael Kelly was a grandson of Darby Kelly mentioned, and the brother
of Gen. B. F. Kelly, of West Virginia, as well as the father of ex-Mayor
F. H. Kelly, of Worcester, and of Capt. Warren Michael Kelly, of
Donohoe’s Tenth N. H. regiment in the Civil War.

Michael Lyons was a namesake of the impulsive Matthew Lyons, of Vermont
and Kentucky (who thanked God, when in congress, that he was not one of
“Cromwell’s bastards”), and also of Gen. Nathaniel Lyons, one of the
gallant soldiers and martyrs of the Civil War.

Michael Metcalf bore the same surname as the only Knownothing
governor-elect of New Hampshire. The latter, maternally, was sprung from
a respectable Irish family named Montague, so the historian of the town
of Newport wrote, which perhaps accounts for the appearance of Michael
among the Metcalfs; and here was also a Michael Metcalf, Jr., which
showed that it took one generation to make the name unpopular.

Michael Smith bore a numerous family surname not confined to any one of
the British Isles, but common to all. He was in New Hampshire early, and
with him was Patrick Smith. No doubt both were Irish.

Michael Butler represented another great Irish family, whose most
distinguished member, produced in New Hampshire, was Gen. Benjamin F.
Butler. About the first to appear in the colony was John Butler, who was
in Dover in 1647. James Butler was in Woburn, Mass., in or before 1676;
his son, John Butler, came to Pelham, N. H., in 1721. They are the
ancestors of many of the name in the state.

The foregoing sketches have been written in order to show the kind of
men some of those New Hampshire Dennises, Corneliuses, Patricks and
Michaels were. A modern Irishman, bearing any of these names, would
never have his nationality questioned. All are appended here so as to
have them placed on record as another piece of evidence to illustrate
the presence of Irish in New Hampshire before the Revolution.

This is a pre-Revolutionary list:

Dennis Andrews, Dennis Bohonnon, Dennis Bickford, Dennis Callahan,
Dennis Loughlan, Dennis Hight, Dennis Haley, Dennis McLane, Dennis
Johnson, Dennis Sullivan, Dennis Pendergast, Dennis Stanley, Dennis
Wood, Dennis Burger, Dennis McLaughlan, Dennis Organ (O’Regan).

Cornelius Bean, Cornelius Brooks, Cornelius Boule (Boyle), Cornelius
Blunt, Cornelius Busiel, Cornelius Campbell, Cornelius Cuyler, Cornelius
Connor, Cornelius Cook, Cornelius Driscoll, Cornelius Clough, Cornelius
Denbow, Cornelius Dunsey, Cornelius Lary, Cornelius Duffee, Cornelius
Dinsmore, Cornelius Danley, Cornelius Goodell, Cornelius Innis,
Cornelius Kirby, Cornelius Laurence, Cornelius Roberts, Cornelius
Sturtevant, Cornelius Thompson, Cornelius Warren, Cornelius Wheeler,
Cornelius Johnson, Cornelius Cornell, Cornelius White, Cornelius Cady
(Cody), Cornelius Culnon, Cornelius Stowell, Cornelius Davoe, Cornelius
Dillingham, Cornelius Neall, Cornelius Uart (Hart?), Cornelius Ludlow,
Cornelius Lowe, Cornelius Stratton, Cornelius Osborne, Cornelius
Winslow.

Patrick Bourn, Patrick Burns, Patrick Bradshawe, Patrick Campbell,
Patrick Cogan, Patrick Clark, Patrick Bonner, Patrick Douglass, Patrick
Donnell, Patrick Field, Patrick Furness, Patrick O’Flynn, Patrick
Fisher, Patrick Fassett, Patrick Gault, Patrick Guinlon, Patrick Grimes,
Patrick Henry, Patrick Jameson, Patrick Kinelty, Patrick Larkin, Patrick
Lieless, Patrick McDonnell, Patrick Kennedy, Patrick McMurphy, Patrick
Cavanagh, Patrick Furlong, Patrick Madden, Patrick McGee, Patrick
McGrath, Patrick McLaughlin, Patrick McMitchell, Patrick Moore, Patrick
McCutchin, Patrick Murray, Patrick Murphy 1, Patrick Murphy 2, Patrick
Markham, Patrick Garvin, Patrick Tobin, Patrick Melvin, Patrick
Landrigal, Patrick Roach, Patrick Tobeyne, Patrick Greing, Patrick
Taggart, Patrick Straton, Patrick Jennison, Patrick Manning, Patrick
Smith, Patrick Farrell, Patrick Dougherty, Patrick White, Patrick Burt,
Patrick McKey, Patrick Pebbles, Patrick Thatcher, Patrick Orr, Patrick
Griffin.

Michael Anderson, Michael Bowdoin, Michael Bowler, Michael Barrus,
Michael Brown, Michael Arbuckle, Michael Archer, Michael Cook, Michael
Carroll, Michael Chapman, Michael Annis, Michael Coffin, Michael
Chatterton, Michael Cressy, Michael Carew, Michael Clark, Michael
Dalton, Michael Doherty, Michael Doulton, Michael Davis, Michael Dwyer,
Michael Doran, Michael Ames, Michael Dearborn, Michael Falker, Michael
Fitzgerald, Michael Field, Michael Gordon, Michael Gibson, Michael
Grant, Michael George, Michael Gilman, Michael Haley, Michael Hailstock,
Michael Heffron, Michael Hoyt, Michael Hilands, Michael Hayes, Michael
Hicks, Michael Flanders, Michael Jennings, Michael Keef, Michael Kelly,
Michael Lovell, Michael Lanning, Michael Lyons, Michael Lannon, Michael
Logan, Michael Ludden, Michael Looney, Michael Larney, Michael Keep,
Michael Martyn, Michael Metcalf, Michael Moulton, Michael McClary,
Michael Martin, Michael Mann, Michael Miles, Michael McClintock, Michael
Metcalf, Jr., Michael Mitchell, Michael Mosher, Michael Poor, Michael
Parke, Michael Perry, Michael Quinn, Michael Reade, Michael Ryan,
Michael Saunders, Michael Sutton, Michael Stocker, Michael Sargent,
Michael Smith, Michael Shalletoo, Michael Tamtor, Michael Thomas,
Michael Tebo, Michael Traynor, Michael Tilton, Michael Troy, Michael
Tinney, Michael Veal, Michael Salter, Michael Reed, Michael Verli,
Michael Wentworth, Michael Worthen, Michael Whidden, Michael Sudrick,
Michael Silk, Michael Ward, Michael Vincint, Michael Johnson, Michael
Woodcock, Michael Woodcock, Jr., Michael Johnston, Michael Scruton,
Michael Fowler, Michael French, Michael Mudge, Michael Herring, Michael
Warring, Michael Butler, Michael Burnham, Michael Colley, Michael
Dunning, Michael Duff, Michael Farley, Michael Huffuel.




      MATTHEW WATSON, AN IRISH SETTLER OF BARRINGTON, R. I., 1722.

                       BY THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY.


The town of Barrington is picturesquely located in eastern Rhode Island.
It has a fine outlook on Narragansett bay and also borders on the
Warren[43] river. It was incorporated by Massachusetts in 1718. In
1746‒’47 the territory came under the jurisdiction of Rhode Island, and
Barrington was merged with Warren. In 1770 Warren was divided and
Barrington again incorporated, this time by Rhode Island. There are
several historic sites in the town, many pleasant drives and a number of
interesting caves, woods and districts. The present population is
between 1600 and 1700.

One of the earliest Irish settlers in Barrington[44] was Matthew Watson.
He located there[45] over 175 years ago and reminiscences of his life
and times are still current among the people. Matthew was born in
Ireland in 1696. His people are believed to have been Presbyterians, an
element that has given many sturdy patriots to the cause of Irish
nationality.[46] The family left Ireland for America about 1712. They
landed in Boston.

What induced them to leave the old country can only be conjectured. It
is reasonable to suppose, however, that it was due to causes that
compelled thousands of other Irish Presbyterians to emigrate. These
causes were the result of English oppression. The Irish Presbyterians
were treated with great harshness[47] by various successive governments
in England. At one time edicts of banishment were issued against their
ministers; at another we find the government wickedly declaring their
pulpits vacant and filling them with clergymen of the Established
church. When England had a policy of church or state to carry out in
Ireland it could be made to bear heavily on the Presbyterian as on the
Catholic. England’s repeated suppression of Irish industries also caused
great numbers of Presbyterians and Irish Protestants, generally, to
emigrate to America.

The Watson family here mentioned consisted of Matthew, his father and
mother, four brothers and one sister. Sometime after arriving in Boston
the family removed to Leicester, Mass. Matthew came to Barrington in
1722, being then in his 26th year. He entered the employ of John Read, a
brickmaker, and rapidly attained great proficiency in the business,
winning the confidence of his employer and the esteem of his associates.
In the course of time he fell in love with his employer’s daughter,
Bethiah. His affection was reciprocated and the two soon became engaged.
The fact becoming known, Bethiah’s father earnestly opposed it. She was
his only daughter, and he eloquently represented to her the “folly” of
throwing herself away on “a little poor Irishman.” His arguments were of
no avail, however, and she and Matthew were married at Barrington in
1732.

It was a happy marriage and her father lived to bless the day when the
“little poor Irishman” became his daughter’s husband. Subsequently
Matthew purchased the farm of his father-in-law and conducted the
brick-making business on an extensive scale. He erected a commodious
brick mansion house which became known to the country round about as the
“Great Watson Mansion,” embellished the grounds and amassed a fortune of
$80,000.[48]

By some it is held that Matthew’s father had also located in Barrington.
The original Watson property comprised a very large part of the town.
The homestead has since been greatly reduced, however, by dividing it
among the children, by bequests and by extensive sales to new-comers.
The estate at present comprises about fifty acres, tillable and
woodland, held by descendants of Matthew. The land is very productive.
There is one six-acre lot, nearly as level as a floor, and which
produces rich crops of hay, although it has not been dressed in the past
thirty years.[49] Underneath the greater part of the estate is a stratum
of the best quality of blue clay within four to six feet of the surface.

This stratum underlies nearly the entire town, cropping out on the bay
and river shores. The principal industry of Barrington is brick-making,
which has been carried on for an indefinite period. At present
30,000,000 are produced annually. The labor in the old brick-yards of
the Watson family was done chiefly by slaves of whom Watson owned nearly
fifty. All these he manumitted some time before his death. The
continuous transportation of brick to the bay, by these slaves, for
shipment gradually wore a roadway more than six feet in depth.[50] By
plowing and cultivation this has long since been mostly filled in,
though there are still places where the old roadway shows two or three
feet deep. Some time in the eighteenth century a law was passed
ordaining that bricks should be made of certain specified dimensions.
Matthew Watson, the settler, considered this requirement as very unjust,
and so decided not to change the size of his product. In order to escape
prosecution, however, he ceased calling his goods brick, but instead
styled them “Watson’s ware.” As there was no law regarding “Watson’s
ware” the plan succeeded, and the old gentleman continued making and
selling brick at their former dimensions.[51] The “Great Watson Mansion”
was for a long period visited by people who had heard of its dimensions
and sumptuous furnishings and who desired to feast their eyes upon so
much grandeur.

It is said to have possessed some of the earliest wall paper used in
America, outside of Boston. The jambs, mantels and hearth were
constructed of marble and imported from Amsterdam. The carpet was made
from the wool of sheep raised on the farm, and being the first carpet
used in those parts attracted visitors from points even forty miles
away. A part of the mansion was recently still standing, and occupied by
descendants of Matthew. The present is the sixth American generation of
the family. Matthew, born in 1696, died in 1807; having completed 110
years of life and started on his 111th.

It is said that up to the day of his death, his faculties were
unimpaired, except for blindness. On the day that he was 100 years old
he called for his saddle-horse, mounted without assistance and rode off
briskly for a couple of miles. Upon his return, the negro servant being
absent, and the great gate unopened, he touched up his horse and cleared
it at a bound.

Further interesting facts regarding Matthew Watson are found in an
article published[52] some years before his death. It was written at
Barrington and reads as follows:

“There is now living in this town Matthew Watson, Esq., in the 105th
year of his age, in a pretty good state of health, and in the enjoyment
of his faculties, except being blind. He was born in Coleraine in the
province of Ulster, in the north of Ireland, in March, A. D. 1696, from
whence he, with his father and mother, four brothers and one sister,
migrated and arrived at Boston, A. D. 1712, from whence they removed to
and settled in Leicester, in the county of Worcester (Mass.), where he
hath one brother, Deacon Oliver Watson, now living. Mr. Watson came to
this town A. D. 1722, where by his industry he acquired a pretty
handsome fortune. He hath sustained the office of a Justice of the Peace
in the town, and was formerly a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for
the county of Bristol. He hath been a member of the Congregational
church in this town between seventy and eighty years without censure. He
hath ten children now living, the youngest of whom is fifty-three years
of age, all in a married state, except his eldest and youngest
daughters, who are widows. He was born in the seventeenth, lived through
the eighteenth and is now progressing in the nineteenth century.”

The foregoing extract was found, in 1893, by the writer while engaged in
examining files of the _Providence Gazette_ at the rooms of the Rhode
Island Historical Society in Providence. As the article was written at
Barrington during the lifetime of the centenarian, some, at least, of
the facts were probably obtained from his own lips. The extract may
therefore be considered as authoritatively settling certain data which
have long been in dispute.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Matthew is said to have had fifteen children, ten of whom were living at
the time of his decease.[53] The names of these ten were Abigail, Mary,
Rachel, Mercy, Bethiah, Matthew, Lydia, William, John and Samuel. There
were also many grandchildren and great grandchildren. In Arnold’s “Vital
Record of Rhode Island” appears an entry under Barrington which states
in substance that “Robert Watson and Mary Orr married at Londonderry,
Ireland, 1695.” They were probably the parents of Matthew, the
Barrington settler, who had the names recorded for purpose of reference;
or they may have been so recorded by some other member of the family.
The centenarian was twice married.[54] Bethia, his first wife, died in
1778, leaving ten children. One of Matthew’s descendants, John Watson,
married Ann Waterman, daughter of Capt. Asa Waterman, of Rhode Island,
who was assistant commissary-general during the Revolution. She was
related to Governor Cooke of Rhode Island.

Among the centenarian’s descendants were the following: Robert S. W.
Watson who wedded Patience Blygh. He was born in 1804; Annie Cooke
Watson, born in 1831; Dr. S. T. Watson, born 1832; John W. Watson, 1835;
Mary H. Watson, 1837; Henry H. Watson, 1839; Robert S. Watson, 1843;
Emily F. Watson, 1845; Robert S. Watson, 1846; Charlotte A. Watson,
1850.

Nearly every generation of the family has had a Matthew in it. A second
Matthew Watson was born in 1741.[55] A Matthew Watson of a later
generation married Abby B. Wheaton, of Providence, in 1818. The
Providence Directory for 1844 shows “Matthew Watson, manufacturer, rear
Roger Williams Bank,” and gives his residence as Angell street. In
February, 1892, the following interesting communication appeared in the
Providence _Journal_. Its author is thought to have been Matthew Watson,
of Providence, a recent representative of the name.

                  *       *       *       *       *

THE CUP THAT CHEERS. To the Editor of the _Journal_: The first time that
tea was brought to Barrington, Rhode Island, is not known to the writer
of this article, but the second time it was brought by Matthew Watson
something over a hundred and fifty years ago, before the famous Boston
tea party.

Matthew Watson sold brick which he manufactured from the clay on his own
property, which was extensive, even for those days, in Newport. On one
of his trips there he bought the teapot, a sketch of which appears with
this article, and six teacups.

As tea had never been used, of course there was no tea-kettle, and water
to make this was boiled in a dinner pot hanging from a crane over the
wood fire. The teapot now is in possession of one of Matthew Watson’s
descendants, and is a quaint little affair of some ancient style of
crockery. It stands on three legs, which adds to its unique appearance.

Once it was broken into eight pieces, but was so cleverly mended that it
is almost impossible to detect this as it stands, with other heirlooms,
looking down on the china and glass of later dates.

                                                      FAIRLEIGH COTTAGE.




   THE FIELD, SCOPE AND OPPORTUNITY OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL
                                SOCIETY.

            BY DENNIS HARVEY SHEAHAN,[56] PROVIDENCE, R. I.


The history of a country is dear to the heart of the lover of that
country. By the aid of historical study we learn of the origin, growth
and development of a race of people; their customs, religions, laws,
governments; their accomplishments and what they have contributed to the
economy of the world.

The historian points out the past to the present and future. He puts
aside the veil that has gathered about the dim past, opens up to the
gaze of the bright present the panorama of human achievement, and blazes
the way for his successor in the rosy future.

What the clergyman learns from the theological disputations of the past,
the poring monk has gathered together; what the physician now acquires
with comparative ease is furnished him by the knowledge garnered from
the experience of his brethren from the time when man learned that pain
and aches affected his being; what the lawyer gains from precedents is a
guiding light which sheds its rays upon problems of jurisprudence that
the legal lore of the past generations has taken from the leaves of
experience; what formulæ the scientist is able to demonstrate, he owes
to the observations of men who, through the ages, have chronicled the
phenomena of nature; the statesman is able to meet the crisis of the
present by being informed as to other crises in governmental affairs.

The citizen of a republic who neglects to learn the fundamental
principles upon which rest the laws of the land; who does not know how
the country was developed and maintained is as a blind man and not able
to bring to the exercise of his suffrage the amount of intelligence that
the country has a right to require from him.

This obligation comes to us in a twofold capacity. We, as citizens of
this great republic, should study the history of our country from a
patriotic standpoint, while as Irishmen, or descendants of Irishmen, it
should be not only a duty, but a pleasure, to learn of the deeds of the
Irish in America.

Therefore, an organization such as the American-Irish Historical
Society, if it had no other _raison d’être_, would accomplish a
patriotic purpose if it served only as an incentive to the study of the
deeds of Irishmen and their descendants in America. It has become almost
a maxim in historical matters, that the history of events cannot be
accepted as facts until the generation which lived at the time said
events occurred has passed away.

The passions, influences and conditions which generate, shape and
control events, lend a coloring to their recital, which deep-hued or
faint as painted by the writer at the time, are toned down or made
stronger by the historian of a future generation, who, unmindful of
passions, influences or conditions, and with an eye single to the
preservation of history by means of the truth, makes past occurrences
stand out in their true light.

Deeds that have received but a passing mention from writers whose minds
were biased, are rescued from an unmerited insignificance, and placed
high in the Temple of Fame; while highly extolled acts, given undue
prominence by a partisan writer, are consigned to a merited oblivion by
the historian of a later but more impartial epoch.

A member of the Society of Friends who desires to familiarize himself
with the history of his sect in New England, would find but little of
the truth in the writings which have come from such intellectual
dyspeptics as Cotton Mather and his disciples. But, in the unwritten
history of Quaker persecutions that have become legendary, by the purity
of their lives, by their nobility of character and their Christianizing
influences, the pioneers of that faith stand out in bold relief in the
religious history of Puritan New England, with its dark background of
scourging, mutilation, banishments and hangings.

By analogy, how can the Irish-American race expect that the history of
Irishmen in New England can be presented in just proportion to the true
merits of the case? As in New England, so throughout the colonies. The
Virginia Cavalier was not less hostile to the Irish than the
Massachusetts Puritan.

Should the American-Irish Historical Society go out of existence
to-morrow, it would have already accomplished a grand mission in this:
that it has brought forth from obscure records the deeds of Irishmen in
America, and has laid the foundation for the erection of an historical
monument to Irishmen, that, with its base laid in colonial times, and
still being constructed, challenges the respect and admiration of all
lovers of American history.

The work of this society has been thus far largely confined to research
of New England records. This research has been fruitful of good results.
Among other things we learn of the Irish as brickmakers at Rehobeth,
Mass., and as settlers in Salem and Lynn in early colonial times.

Again, we learn that the Irish in the Granite state had become so
numerous in colonial times that the general court of Massachusetts
passed a law prohibiting the “wild Irishmen of New Hampshire” from
coming across the state line, lest they should drive out the people of
the older colony. As long as that state shall last the glory and the
fame of the Sullivans and their contemporaries of the Irish race will
remain illustrious.

This research has extracted from the records of Rhode Island the
influence of the Irish schoolmaster, MacSparran, in moulding the
intellectual development of that colony; it has called attention to the
work of George Berkeley in the promotion of education here, and what is
to me personally exceedingly pleasant information, that Brown
University, my beloved alma mater, in its infancy was succored by the
contributions of worthy people residing in Ireland.

The work of presenting to the world the achievements of the Irish in
America, in its just proportion to the achievements of men of other
races in the colonization, struggle for independence, and the creation
of a republic, the development of that republic from a theory into a
concrete nation, and the perpetuation of that nation, is a duty not only
to the men whose deeds are to be chronicled, but also a debt which we
owe to ourselves, which we should cheerfully assume. The labor involved
in this from its very nature is such as can only be performed by an
organization such as the American-Irish Historical Society.

The true status of the Irish in America, notwithstanding the fact that
their brain and brawn have been interwoven in the woof and web of our
nation’s fabric, has never been fully appreciated by reason of the
prejudices which have been associated with anything that bore an Irish
name. This prejudice, in no small part, arose from misconception and
misunderstanding of the Irish nature, temperament, and characteristics.
There is a brand of bigotry that is sometimes designated as inborn. In
the case of a bigot whose bigotry is congenital, it is well to follow
the Scriptural injunction to reason not with a fool lest he grow wise.

But in the case of those persons who, by reason of misconception, or
want of acquaintance with Irishmen, cannot properly estimate our race,
yet whose minds are broad enough to cherish the worth of a man when
demonstrated, and whose patriotism counts every man a friend who has
contributed to the glory of his country, an impartial history of the
deeds of Irishmen in America would effectively serve to displace any
prejudice.

What lover of the human race, animated by that noble sentiment of
Terrence, “I am a man, and I think nothing human foreign to me,” can
fail to appreciate the sturdy virtues of the Irish people in America,
their patient industry, their obedience to constituted authority, their
domestic constancy, their desire to provide homes for their families,
and education for their children.

What patriotic American can fail to be moved by emotions of gratitude
when he learns among other facts that the Irish in Ireland assisted with
food and provisions the struggling settlers of Boston in a time of dire
distress; that Irishmen of Philadelphia contributed large sums of money
to the famished Revolutionary heroes at Valley Forge; that George
Washington considered himself honored in being elected a member of an
Irish society; that nine of the signers of the Declaration of
Independence were men of Irish blood; that on the field of war, and in
the council chamber of the nation, as well as in the administration of
national, state, and municipal affairs, from the time of our earliest
history to the present time, men of that race have given their lives and
property to the nation’s cause. The work of this society thus far in
this direction gives promise of either destroying the prejudices that
have hitherto existed against the Irish people, or removing the venom
from the fangs of bigotry.

To my mind the most urgent need of a society of this nature is the means
it affords of preserving Irish history in America. It would be a great
misfortune if the history of the Irish people in America, at present
fragmentary at best, yet gathered together under favorable conditions
and after the most careful and painstaking labor, could not find some
secure lodgment.

What more suitable abiding place than the cabinet of the American-Irish
Historical Society, from whence it could find its way into the private
and public libraries, not only of our own country, but of the civilized
world?

This Society, in the short time it has been in existence, has
accomplished so much in its chosen field as already to have demonstrated
quite clearly its scope. From the publications issued by its members,
notably the work of Secretary-General Murray in Massachusetts and Rhode
Island, Commissioner Linehan in New Hampshire, Senator Walsh in Georgia,
Hon. Joseph T. Lawless in Virginia, and others, our Society has already
contributed a fund of rich historical value to the history of this
country. It would suffice to cite this labor to show the scope.

The thought has occurred to me that it might be well, however, to
suggest a specialization of this work, and to provide avenues for its
dissemination. The Society should pursue the line of procedure already
mapped out by extending its membership to every state in the country.
Membership should be selected from men of scholarly attainments, devoted
to historical research. This membership should be so catholic as to
include men of all religious denominations and nationalities.

Apropos of this, I beg leave to call attention to the great work done
and being done by German scholars in the study of Celtic, to illustrate
the probable value of assistance that might be rendered to us by men of
other nationalities. The Society should coöperate with the movements in
the other states looking to the establishment of record commissions, and
in states where such movements have not been set on foot, to labor to
create such movements.

With such an inviting field of labor spread out before us, this Society
not only supplies a long-felt want, but also a means of inspiration.
Each member can contribute to the common fund of historical data, and
the sum total of these contributions will go to make up a work of great
value.

The need of such an organization as the American-Irish Historical
Society being demonstrated, and its scope clearly defined, all that
remains to be done to perpetuate its success is to continue in the work
already so auspiciously undertaken.




                THE UNITED STATES TORPEDO-BOAT O’BRIEN.

                    COMPILED FROM THE DAILY PAPERS.


The torpedo-boat _O’Brien_,[57] for the United States navy, was launched
at Lewis Nixon’s “Crescent shipyard,” Elizabethport, N. J., Sept. 24,
1900. She is named the _O’Brien_, to perpetuate the memory of the five
O’Brien brothers,—Jeremiah, Gideon, William, John, and Joseph,—sons of
Maurice O’Brien of Cork, Ireland, who had settled at Machias, Me. The
boys are believed to have all been born in the latter place.

After the news of the battle of Lexington reached Machias, the
townspeople erected a liberty pole, and the fact having been
communicated to the British authorities, the sloop-of-war _Margaretta_,
under the command of Lieutenant Moore of the English navy, was directed
to proceed from Boston to Machias to investigate the matter.

The _Margaretta_ went, and was captured by the O’Briens, after a sharp
fight, May 11, 1775. Lieutenant Moore’s sword was presented to Joseph
O’Brien, he being the “baby” of the expedition. It has been handed down
from father to son ever since. The sword was exhibited at the launching
and attracted no little attention.

The young lady who “christened” the _O’Brien_, Miss Myra Lincoln
O’Brien, is a descendant of Joseph O’Brien, the “baby” above mentioned.
Her father, Albert H. O’Brien, is a lawyer in Philadelphia. He served in
the Civil War, and subsequently in the United States marines, from which
corps he resigned as a first lieutenant in 1875. Her grandfather was
Dennis W. O’Brien of Philadelphia, who died in 1878, while filling the
office of judge of the Orphans’ court of Philadelphia county, and her
great-grandfather was Dennis O’Brien, a merchant of Reading, Pa.

The day was a pleasant one for the launching, and despite the early hour
set for the ceremony, Miss O’Brien, several of her relatives and
friends, Lewis Nixon, Superintendent Ackerman, and the heads of the
various departments were on hand. When the christening party were placed
on the vessel the workmen released the huge hull and the _O’Brien_
gracefully slid from the ways. The launching of the _O’Brien_ marks
another step in the consummation of the government plan of perpetuating
the names of the more prominent figures in the American Revolution. The
O’Briens were a family who possessed indomitable courage and spirit and
played a conspicuous part in this country’s battle for freedom.

It is stated that on the arrival of the _Margaretta_ off Machias, her
commanding officer, Lieutenant Moore, notified the town officials that
the Liberty pole must come down or the vessel would open fire on the
town.

On Sunday morning, May 11, a lumber sloop commanded by Jeremiah O’Brien,
with about fifty men armed with muskets and pitchforks, left the town
and sailed down the bay in the direction of the _Margaretta_. There was
a hand-to-hand fight on the decks, and though the English fought well
with their small arms, the _Margaretta_ was a prize within twenty
minutes. Lieutenant Moore and ten of his men were killed and others
severely wounded, the attacking party losing six men killed, while five
were wounded.

This capture was the first naval engagement of the American
Revolution,[58] but Jeremiah O’Brien and his brothers, William and John,
subsequently received provincial commissions and participated in other
engagements as commanding officers.

The _O’Brien_ is a magnificent boat and looks the fighter, every inch of
her. She is 175 feet long on her water line, 17 feet beam, and of 14
feet, 6 inches draught. Her displacement is about 165 tons. Steel has
been used whenever possible, and when wood has been used it has been
electrically treated so as to be fireproof. In every part unnecessary
weight has been eliminated. The piston rods, shafts, connecting rods and
working parts generally are of nickel steel.

There are four cylinder, triple expansion engines, one high power
cylinder, 18 inches in diameter, one intermediate power cylinder, 27
inches in diameter, and two low power cylinders, 27½ inches in diameter,
each with an 18‒inch stroke. The indicated horse power is 3,500, which
will give 350 revolutions to the screws per minute. There are twin
screws instead of a single screw. The propelling engines are located in
a water-tight compartment.

On board, there is every appliance known to modern naval engineering.
The two condensers each have a cooling surface of 1,500 feet. A
distilling plant for distilling salt water into fresh water is also
supplied in the boat, as well as an air compressing and an electric
lighting plant. Three boilers of the Mosher water-tube design give the
needed power. They are powerfully constructed and will give a working
pressure of 250 pounds to the square inch, with a heating surface of
8,325 square feet. Each boiler is to be supplied with a smoke-pipe
standing about ten feet above the deck.

The _O’Brien_ is low in the water and exceedingly hard to locate at
night, even by the use of searchlights. She is a type of the advanced
fighting machine, and her entire appearance denotes the fighter. Her
armament is as follows: Three torpedo tubes, two forward, one aft, and
three three-pound rapid-fire guns, located as are the torpedo tubes.
When in commission she will carry a Whitehead torpedo in each tube, and
additional ones on the racks near the tubes. The boat will carry sixty
officers and men.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Speaking of the capture of the _Margaretta_, Capt. Edward O’Meagher
Condon, a member of the American-Irish Historical Society, says in his
excellent work:[59] “This was the _first naval fight_ of the Revolution,
and Jeremiah O’Brien was the victorious commander. Two British cruisers,
the _Diligence_ and _Tapnaguish_, were at once despatched to lay Machias
in ashes, but they also were met and captured by O’Brien, his brothers
and comrades. The young hero immediately sailed, with his prizes and
prisoners, for Watertown, Mass., where the Provincial Congress was in
session, and received the thanks of that body and a captain’s
commission. But the British were not yet satisfied. They sent from
Halifax a squadron, including a frigate, a twenty-gun corvette, a brig
of sixteen guns, and several armed schooners, to crush the weak American
fleet; but O’Brien, aided by Colonel Foster, was once more triumphant,
and beat them off after a hard struggle.

“They then sent a strong body of land forces against Machias, but after
the second day’s march from Passamaquoddy the British troops returned to
Halifax, despairing of effecting a passage through the woods, or,
perhaps, hopeless of accomplishing their purpose when confronted by
those who had already conquered their fellow-mercenaries three times at
sea. We are told that Maurice O’Brien, old as he was, could hardly be
restrained from joining his gallant sons in their daring enterprise
against the British.

“Three of the O’Briens, Jeremiah, John and William, continued in the
naval service of the republic until the close of the war. Jeremiah was
appointed to the command of _The Liberty_, and his brother William
served under him as lieutenant. ‘For two years this vessel and another
did good service on the northern coast, affording protection to American
navigation, after which they were laid up.’ Jeremiah, with others, then
fitted out a twenty-gun letter-of-marque, called the _Hannibal_, manned
by one hundred and thirty men.

“She took several prizes; but at length falling in with two British
frigates, she was overhauled after a chase of forty-eight hours and
captured. O’Brien was first confined in the _Jersey_ prison-ship,
otherwise known as the _Hell_, at the Wallabout, where the Brooklyn navy
yard now is. At the end of about six months he was sent to Mill prison,
England, whence he succeeded in effecting his escape about a year later.
He retired after the war to Brunswick, Me., where, at the age of over
fourscore, he furnished the details of his brave achievements to a
generation which had shamefully forgotten him and them.

“John O’Brien was more fortunate than his gallant brother. From a
journal kept by him the following extracts are taken: On June 9, 1779,
he sailed in the armed schooner _Hibernia_. On June 21, he took an
English brig and sent her in. On June 25, he had an engagement with a
ship of seventeen guns, from three till five o’clock p. m., when a
frigate came up and the _Hibernia_ was compelled to leave her
anticipated prize and was pursued by the frigate till midnight. O’Brien
had three men killed and several wounded in this fight. On July 7 he
took a schooner, and sent her to Newburyport. On the day following, in
company with Captain Leach of Salem, he took a ship carrying thirteen
four-pounders; a few hours after, a brig; and then a schooner laden with
molasses. On July 11, he took a brig in ballast, and then chased and
captured another. He adds that if he and Captain Leach had not parted in
a fog they could have taken the whole fleet. Capt. John O’Brien was
never captured by the enemy. No trace is found after the capture of the
_Hannibal_, of Lieut. William O’Brien. He was most probably among the
11,000 victims of British cruelty, whose corpses were buried, or flung
on the shores of the Wallabout.”

[Illustration:

  JOHN BARRY.

  Distinguished naval officer; born in Wexford County, Ireland, 1745. At
    the outbreak of the Revolution he abandoned “the finest ship and the
    finest employ in America” to enter the service of the republic; was
    appointed by Congress, in 1776, to prepare for sea a fleet which
    sailed from Philadelphia, Pa.; rendered brilliant service while
    commanding successively the U. S. S. Lexington, the U. S. S.
    Raleigh, and the U. S. S. Alliance; was publicly thanked by
    Washington; became senior officer of the navy; died at Philadelphia,
    1803.
]




                   THE SOCIETY’S FIELD IN CALIFORNIA.

                   BY JAMES CONNOLLY, CORONADO, CAL.


The American-Irish Historical Society is national, broad and
comprehensive. To those familiar with the way in which our race has been
misrepresented or omitted in some histories of California, nothing more
is needed than the mere fact of the existence of such a society as ours
as an inducement to their taking an interest in it. But there are the
great majorities on the other hand who have little time to look into
such matters in out of the way places, before whom I wish to place the
more important purposes and scope of the Society.

Probably no great incentive to the study of the latter phases of this
Society is needed than the fact that during its short existence it has
been extended to over thirty states of the Union and to the District of
Columbia. Most or all of the men who first conceived the need and then
issued the call for its organization are of national reputation in the
several walks of life. The first meeting was held at the Revere House,
Boston, Jan. 20, 1897. Rear Admiral Richard Worsam Meade was then
elected the first president-general. With seven generations of American
ancestry back of him, and brother of the hero of Gettysburg, it would
have been hard to find a more representative man of the race for that
office than he.

In thus honoring him the Society was doubly honoring itself. The race
that gave the new United States navy Commodore Jack Barry, might as well
supply a rear admiral for president of this Society in 1897. The strides
forward during the intervening century have been certainly great. And
to-day the race stands as firmly and fearlessly as it did then, for
freedom. Theodore Roosevelt, governor of the Empire state, who is so
distinguished in literature, war and statecraft that it would be hard to
tell in which he most excels, is among the members.

The mere mention of these names that have come so conspicuously before
the world is not calculated to signify that there are not many others of
almost or quite equal note. Scholars, statesmen and soldiers are
numerous among the Society’s officers and members. But in such a
brotherhood as ours there are no caste barriers. In the common endeavor
for the common good of seeing that American history is truly written, we
meet and act upon common ground.

“Fidelity, truth, honor, are the watchwords,” says the preamble to the
constitution, “and under their noble influence should our work be done.”
Of the nine distinct objects and purposes set forth in Article II of the
constitution, two may be quoted as embodying the more essential features
of our work:

“(2) To investigate specially the immigration of the people of Ireland
to this country, determine its numbers, examine the sources, learn the
places of its settlement, and estimate its influence on contemporary
events in war, legislation, religion, education and other departments of
human activity.”

“(7) To promote by union in a common high purpose a sincere fraternity,
a greater emulation in well doing, a closer confidence and mutual
respect among the various elements of the Irish race in America, that,
by putting behind them the asperities of the past, they may unite in a
common brotherhood with their fellow-citizens for the honor of the race
and the glory of the Republic.”

Nor are the seven other articles of any less importance, that of the
fourth pertaining to the correction of “erroneous, distorted and false
views of history,” and the substitution of truth based upon documentary
evidence, therefor, being amongst the most essential work to be done.
Had we only to deal with our national history, voluminous as it is, the
work before us would seem quite easy.

But there are the almost innumerable state, county, city and town
histories, each of which needs as thorough sifting as does the national.
This fact was indelibly impressed upon my mind three years ago when I
was wading through California state and city histories for kernels of
truth pertaining to “The Precursors of the Pioneers,” and other matter
which I was then writing for publication. Never was the need more
palpably illustrated of keeping well informed on the substance of all
these histories than by a combination of self-constituted “protectors”
of everything American, when they confronted us with accusations of
disloyalty to the Republic and openly sought to insult us with taunts of
being “the Pope’s Irish.” But brief as has been the interval, time has
already doubly vindicated us. When there were Spanish guns to be faced
our accusers stayed bravely at home.

There are no sectarian or religious differences in our Society. Priests
and ministers here unite in bands of blood and brotherhood. We now mourn
the quite recent death of Rev. George W. Pepper, a Methodist minister of
Ohio, one of our ablest workers. Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, president
of the Catholic University of Notre Dame, is also in our ranks.

I heartily wish that the duty of endeavoring to enlist the interest of
men of Irish blood in California in the organization of a State Chapter
of this Society devolved upon some of the many abler and better equipped
men in the state. But even the keenest sense of one’s own shortcomings
will not justify the shirking of such a duty. Here on the fag end of
things [Coronado] we are few in numbers. In the hot press of the main
chance there seem to be few having time or interest enough to spare to
such a brotherhood. But I am quite sure that in the larger cities of San
Francisco, Sacramento, Stockton and Los Angeles, there are many
patriotic, true men and well-wishers of our race who will cheerfully
join us in organizing a State Chapter, and to these I now appeal for
coöperation to that end.

“Any person of good moral character, who is interested in the special
work of the society, shall be deemed eligible to membership in the same.
No tests other than that of character and devotion to the Society’s
objects shall be applied to membership.” The only charge is an annual
due of three dollars. Persons wishing to become members may send me
their names with addresses and I will send them blanks of application
for membership. These they will fill out and send to me and I will
forward them to the Secretary-General, or they may write directly to
him, addressing Thomas Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I.

The application must be accompanied by the annual fee. A handsome and
comprehensive volume of the Society’s work is issued each year. The
annual meeting and banquet was held in New York this year, and was a
splendid affair. Let us have a California Chapter of this Society that
will be a fit representative of our state and race.




            THE HISTORICAL PLACE OF IRISHMEN IN CALIFORNIA.

    A CIRCULAR ISSUED BY THE KNIGHTS OF ST. PATRICK, SAN FRANCISCO.


The Knights of St. Patrick of San Francisco, an organization of
gentlemen of Irish birth or descent, has recently affiliated with the
American-Irish Historical Society, whose purpose is the investigation,
recording and presentation in appropriate literary form of the influence
of the Irish element in the upbuilding of the Republic.

The Knights undertake, as their special share of a large and commendable
work, an investigation of the historical place of the Irishman in
California.

Each of the races claiming to form part of the primal stock of the
Republic has its own historical association and has traced the movements
of its own blood by special historical investigation. We have the story
of the English, the Dutch, the Huguenot, the Spaniard. The story of one
of the largest fractions of the parent people of the Republic, the
Irish, is being written.

These special researches are admittedly of the highest value to general
history. They can be prosecuted with the greatest success by particular
work in each state. To this end, the Knights of St. Patrick desire to
initiate a thorough, solid, sober investigation of the Irishman’s part
in the life of California. Not to satisfy a prejudice or mere pride of
race, but laboring for right and truth to impartially set forth the
facts of its racial life, that they may “supply omissions, correct
errors, allay passions and shame prejudice.”

The pioneers of this state, the men who made history, are rapidly
disappearing. With them go the original sources of the most valuable
information. If the work above described be not undertaken now, our
posterity will face the same difficulties that confront our Eastern
brethren in their present search for authentic information.

The Society, therefore, desires to begin its investigations at once and
to extend them to every part of the community, placing them under the
conduct of names that, assuring painstaking research and impartial and
discriminating judgment, will certainly present the results of their
labor in attractive literary form; so that the work, commanding the
respect and attention of the community, may have a definite and
permanent historical value.

The work of investigation is to be influenced neither by political nor
religious divisions. The race is paramount. Whether it came from this
part of Ireland or that; whether it worshiped at this shrine or that, is
but a qualifying incident. We seek the life and labors of the race; to
record its arrival, its participation in the civil, political, and
military activities of the state, “to try truthfully and fearlessly to
record its achievements.”

To this end, we invite and request your coöperation in procuring facts
bearing upon our subject. You may possess original information or know
from whom or where it may be obtained, the location or character of
relics that would be of interest or value. You may be able to suggest a
line of inquiry that would aid our purpose. Historical information flows
from a thousand sources. A reminiscence, a relic, an old newspaper
clipping, a letter, a bit of unwritten biography, may be a clew to
important evidence or the prolific source of many unsuspected facts.

In a word, we ask for any light, however small, that may assist in
illuminating an important subject.

Above all, we ask you not to carelessly cast aside these words. It is
the earnest request of earnest men, seeking truth for its own sake and
wisely providing for the historic vindication of their race and name
from the possible aspersions of future ignorance and prejudice.

The Society will, of course, bear any expense that may be entailed in
the collection, transmission or publication of information proper to our
purpose.

Address all correspondence and any requests for further information,
which we will be pleased to give, to

                                        R. C. O’CONNOR,
                                    President, Knights of St. Patrick,
                                                  Hibernia Bank,
                                                          San Francisco.

     JAMES A. EMERY,
   Secretary, Historical Committee,
     1101 Pine Street,
         San Francisco.

 _San Francisco, Cal., 1900._




                      PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY.


The following is a list of publications thus far issued by the Society:

  (1.) THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY: WHAT IT IS AND WHAT ITS
    PURPOSES ARE. Boston, Mass., 1897.

This was issued at Boston, some time after the founding of the Society.
It was a small booklet of twelve pages containing a statement of the
Society’s objects, a list of the officers, and other matter bearing upon
the work of the organization. So much interest was displayed, that the
edition was soon exhausted.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (2.) THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY: WHAT IT IS AND WHAT ITS
    PURPOSES ARE, TOGETHER WITH THE NAMES OF THE OFFICERS AND A LIST OF
    THE MEMBERS. Boston, Mass., 1898.

To a certain extent, this was a second edition of the previous
publication, but larger and more comprehensive. It comprised 32 pages,
and had a portrait of President-General Meade as a frontispiece. The
work is now out of print.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (3.) THE “SCOTCH-IRISH” SHIBBOLETH ANALYZED AND REJECTED. WITH SOME
    REFERENCE TO THE PRESENT “ANGLO-SAXON” COMEDY. Washington, D. C.,
    1898.

This was a handsomely gotten up pamphlet of 29 pages, the author being a
member of the Society, Joseph Smith, of Lowell, Mass. It was issued in
September, 1898. An edition of 1,500 copies was brought out. A few
copies remain on hand.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (4.) IRISH SCHOOLMASTERS IN THE AMERICAN COLONIES, 1640‒1775, WITH A
    CONTINUATION OF THE SUBJECT DURING AND AFTER THE WAR OF THE
    REVOLUTION. Washington, D. C., 1898.

This work was issued in August of the year mentioned, the authors being
two members of the Society, Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general,
and Hon. John C. Linehan, treasurer-general. It was a very attractive
pamphlet of 31 pages and contained mention of over forty Irish teachers.
The Society issued an edition of 2,000 copies of the work. Some fifty
are still on hand.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (5.) THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY. VOL. I.
    Boston, Mass., 1898.

A volume comprising 136 pages, substantially bound in cloth, and having
28 illustrations. It contained the call for the meeting to organize the
Society, the names of the signers, the agreement of association, the
preamble and constitution and much other matter relating to the founding
of the organization. An edition of about 1,000 copies was issued. All
have been distributed. The work was electrotyped by Ginn & Company, the
Boston publishers, so that a second edition can be brought out later at
comparatively small expense.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (6.) THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY. VOL. II.
    Boston, Mass., 1899.

A handsome volume of 258 pages, having 41 illustrations. It is finely
bound in cloth, and contains a mass of interesting facts relating to the
history of the Irish element in the United States. A leading feature in
the work is the Chronology of the Society, giving in regular order the
leading events thus far in the career of the organization. An edition of
1,000 bound, and 100 unbound, copies was issued. The bound copies have
been distributed, with the exception of 25 still left over. The unbound
copies are held, subject to the direction of the Society.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (7.) THE IRISH AT BUNKER HILL: A LIST OF AMERICAN PATRIOTS BEARING
    IRISH NAMES WHO FOUGHT AGAINST THE BRITISH IN THE ACTION OF THE
    SEVENTEENTH OF JUNE, 1775. Boston, Mass., 1900.

This was a leaflet prepared by Secretary Murray for the Society’s
celebration of the 125th anniversary of the battle, June, 1900. The list
comprised 189 names, including such as Burke, Callahan, Carroll,
Cavenaugh, Connelly, Connor, Kelley, Leary, Lynch, Maguire, Mahoney,
McCarthy, McCormack, McDonnell, McElroy, McGee, McGinnis, McGrath,
McGuire, McLaughlin, McMahon, McMurphy, McNamara, Minihan, Mitchell,
Moore, Murphy, Noonan, O’Brien, O’Connor, O’Neil, Roach, Rourke, Ryan,
Scanlon, Shanahan, Shea, Sullivan, Tobin, Tracy, Welsh and the like. A
few copies remain in the hands of the secretary.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  (8.) THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY. VOL. III.
    Boston, Mass., 1900.

The present work, of which 1,000 bound, and 100 unbound, copies are
issued. Like Vols. I and II, a copy of this is sent to every member of
the Society in good standing. Copies are also to be presented to public
libraries, historical societies, college libraries and other educational
institutions. The 100 unbound copies await the pleasure of the Society.




                       CHRONOLOGY OF THE SOCIETY.


 1896. Dec. 26.   Call issued at Boston, Mass., for a meeting to
                  organize the society.
                  *       *       *       *       *

 1897. Jan. 20.   The meeting was held on this date at the Revere House,
                  Boston, Mass.; the Society was organized, and a
                  Constitution and a code of By-Laws adopted. Hon.
                  Thomas J. Gargan presided at the meeting, and Thomas
                  Hamilton Murray was secretary.

 1897. Jan. 20.   At this first meeting addresses were delivered by Hon.
                  John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.; Joseph Smith, Lowell,
                  Mass.; Hon. Hugh J. Carroll, Pawtucket, R. I.; Charles
                  A. De Courcy, Lawrence, Mass.; George H. Moses,
                  Concord, N. H.; Rev. John J. McCoy, Chicopee, Mass.;
                  Osborne Howes, Boston, Mass.; P. J. Flatley, Boston,
                  Mass., and one or two other gentlemen.

 1897. Jan. 20.   Paul B. Du Chaillu, the famous explorer, author of
                  “The Land of the Midnight Sun,” “The Viking Age,”
                  etc., was present at the meeting as the guest of the
                  chairman, Thomas J. Gargan, and made an address.
                  George H. Moses, mentioned in the preceding minute,
                  was present as the guest of Hon. John C. Linehan, and
                  took so much interest in the movement that he signed
                  the agreement of association. Mr. Moses is editor of
                  the _Concord_ (N. H.) _Monitor_.

 1897. Jan. 20.   Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N. (retired), was
                  elected as the first president-general of the Society.

 1897. Jan. 20.   Thomas Hamilton Murray was elected secretary-general;
                  Hon. John C. Linehan, treasurer-general, and Thomas B.
                  Lawler, librarian and archivist. Of these, Mr. Murray
                  then resided in Lawrence, Mass.; Mr. Linehan is state
                  insurance commissioner of New Hampshire, and resides
                  in Concord, while Mr. Lawler was, at the time, a
                  resident of Worcester, Mass.

 1897. Jan. 20.   The following were chosen to be members of the
                  Executive Council of the Society: James Jeffrey Roche,
                  Boston, Mass.; Robert Ellis Thompson, Philadelphia,
                  Pa.; Theodore Roosevelt, New York city; Thomas J.
                  Gargan, Boston, Mass.; Augustus St. Gaudens, New York
                  city; Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Thomas Dunn
                  English, Newark, N. J.; Maurice F. Egan, Washington,
                  D. C.; Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C., and T.
                  Russell Sullivan, Boston, Mass. A list of state
                  vice-presidents was also submitted and adopted.
                  Osborne Howes, Boston, vice-president for
                  Massachusetts, is a descendant of David O’Killia
                  (O’Kelly), who settled on Cape Cod as early as 1657,
                  and who is mentioned in the old Yarmouth, Mass.,
                  records as “the Irishman.” The records show that at
                  the close of King Philip’s War, O’Killia was assessed
                  his proportionate part towards defraying the expenses
                  of that struggle.

 1897. Jan. 20.   Secretary-General T. H. Murray announced at this first
                  meeting that letters expressive of interest in the new
                  organization, acknowledging an invitation, or giving
                  an expression of opinion, had been received from Rear
                  Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N., Germantown, Pa.;
                  Governor Hastings of Pennsylvania; United States
                  Senator Hoar of Worcester, Mass.; Rev. Cyrus Townsend
                  Brady, Protestant Episcopal archdeacon of
                  Pennsylvania; Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York city;
                  Edward A. Moseley, secretary of the Interstate
                  Commerce Commission, Washington, D. C.; Joseph F.
                  Swords, Hartford, Conn.; Ex-United States Senator
                  Patrick Walsh, Augusta, Ga.; Gen. John Cochrane,
                  president of the New York Society of the Cincinnati;
                  Ex-Governor Waller of Connecticut; Rt. Rev. Thomas J.
                  Conaty, later rector of the Catholic University,
                  Washington, D. C.; Gen. Francis A. Walker, Boston,
                  Mass.; Rev. George W. Pepper (Methodist), Cleveland,
                  O.; Rev. J. Gray Bolton (Presbyterian), Philadelphia,
                  Pa.; Ex-Congressman T. A. E. Weadock, Detroit, Mich.,
                  and John P. Donahoe, Wilmington, Del.

 1897. Jan. 20.   Secretary Murray also announced letters from Prof.
                  William M. Sloane, of Columbia University, New York;
                  President Tyler, of the College of William and Mary,
                  Virginia; President Lee, of Washington and Lee
                  University, Virginia; Provost Harrison, of the
                  University of Pennsylvania; Rev. Thomas J. Shahan of
                  the Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; Very Rev.
                  Andrew Morrissey, president of the University of Notre
                  Dame, Indiana; H. B. Adams, professor of American and
                  Institutional History, Johns Hopkins University,
                  Maryland; Henry Stoddard Ruggles, Wakefield, Mass.;
                  Samuel Swett Green, of the American Antiquarian
                  Society, Worcester, Mass.; Theodore Roosevelt, New
                  York city; Thomas Dunn English, Newark, N. J.; Judge
                  Smith of the Superior Court, Pennsylvania; Col. D. S.
                  Lamson, Weston, Mass.; Rev. George C. Betts
                  (Protestant Episcopalian), Goshen, N. Y., and Hon.
                  Emmet O’Neal, United States attorney for the northern
                  district of Alabama.

 1897. Jan. 21.   _The Boston Globe_, _Herald_, and other papers
                  contained reports concerning the formation of the
                  Society. _The Springfield_ (Mass.) _Republican_ said:
                  “The American-Irish Historical society, organized at
                  Boston yesterday with a remarkable list of officers
                  and the assurance of a charter membership as
                  noteworthy, will prove without question a body of real
                  public importance.... Among those present at the
                  meeting mostly from Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and
                  Rhode Island, was Edward A. Hall, of this city, whose
                  history of the Irish in Hampden county has grown into
                  a history of the Irish in western Massachusetts,
                  where, in fact, they settled a great number of the
                  hill towns, and their descendants live to this day....
                  It will be the work of the Society to show what a vast
                  influence the Irish element had in building our free
                  commonwealths whose alliance made the first great
                  country of the people, in which with all its faults
                  reposes the hope of the progress of the world into a
                  world of the people instead of one of warring
                  dynasties and vicious religious hatreds, setting
                  nation against nation. We look to this Society for
                  active, earnest, ardent work for the enlightenment,
                  brotherhood and unity of this people first, and of all
                  other peoples in the long event. God hath made of one
                  blood all the nations of the earth.”

 1897. Jan. 21.   Rev. Edmund B. Palmer, Jamaica Plain, Mass., writes a
                  congratulatory letter to Treasurer-General Linehan.
                  Mr. Palmer states that he is a great-grandson of
                  Barnabas Palmer of Rochester, N. H., who was born in
                  Cork or Limerick, 1725, and who emigrated from there
                  with two brothers, and enlisted under Sir William
                  Pepperill. Barnabas sailed from Portsmouth, N. H.,—one
                  of the force of 3,000 men, 1745, and on the Isle of
                  Cape Breton, under Fort Louisburg, left his right arm.
                  Subsequently, he settled in Rochester, N. H., married,
                  had fourteen children, and was a member of the general
                  court of New Hampshire that ratified the Constitution
                  of the United States.

 1897. Jan. 21.   Col. D. S. Lamson, Weston, Mass., writes desiring to
                  become a member. He was lieutenant-colonel commanding
                  Sixteenth regiment (Mass.), 1861; A. A. G., Norfolk,
                  1862; served on staff of General Hooker; is a member
                  of the Society of Colonial Wars, Sons of the American
                  Revolution, and Military Order of the Loyal Legion;
                  one of his ancestors landed at Ipswich, Mass., in
                  1632, and received a grant of 350 acres which still
                  remains in the family; another ancestor, Samuel, of
                  Reading, Mass., participated in King Philip’s War and
                  had a son in the expedition of 1711. Another member of
                  the family, Samuel, of Weston, commanded a company at
                  Concord, Mass., April 19, 1775, and was major and
                  colonel of the Third Middlesex regiment for many
                  years, dying in 1795.

 1897. Jan. 21.   William Halley, editor of _The Vindicator_, Austin,
                  Ill., writes a congratulatory letter. Mr. Halley came
                  to this country from Ireland, in 1842, as a fellow
                  voyager with Thomas D’Arcy McGee.

 1897. Jan. 23.   Lieutenant Commander J. D. Jerrold Kelley, U. S. N.,
                  attached to the battleship _Texas_, expresses a
                  request to be admitted to membership.

 1897. Jan. 26.   Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N., writes from
                  Germantown, Pa., accepting the office of
                  president-general.

 1897. Jan. 26.   T. Russell Sullivan, Boston, Mass., a descendant of
                  Governor James Sullivan, of Massachusetts,
                  acknowledges his election as a member of the Executive
                  Council of the Society.

 1897. Feb. 3.    Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H., presents the
                  Society a copy of the volume issued by the state of
                  New Hampshire and descriptive of the exercises
                  attending the dedication, Sept. 27, 1894, at Durham,
                  N. H., of the monument to Gen. John Sullivan of the
                  Revolution.

 1897. Feb. 4.    N. C. Steele, M. D., Chattanooga, Tenn., writes
                  interestingly relative to the Society. He says: “I am
                  four generations removed from Ireland.”

 1897. Feb. 6.    O’Brien Moore, Washington, D. C., writes, expressing
                  his desire to become a life member.

 1897. Feb. 8.    Hugh McCaffrey, Philadelphia, Pa., writes enclosing
                  fifty dollars in payment of life membership fee.

 1897. Feb. 9.    Hon. William McAdoo, assistant secretary of the U. S.
                  Navy, Washington, D. C., thanks the Society for having
                  elected him vice-president for New Jersey, his
                  residential state.

 1897. Feb. 10.   Hon. Edwin D. McGuinness, mayor of Providence, R. I.,
                  and ex-secretary of state of Rhode Island, writes that
                  he is entirely in accord with the purposes of the
                  Society, and wishes to become a member.

 1897. Feb. 11.   The editor of the _Rosary Magazine_, through Rev. J.
                  L. O’Neil, O. P., New York city, becomes a life
                  member. This life membership is to stand to the credit
                  of “The Editor of the _Rosary Magazine_.” It is so
                  arranged in order that successive editors of the
                  publication may enjoy the rights and privileges of the
                  Society. Father O’Neil was the first to represent the
                  magazine in the organization.

 1897. Feb. 16.   Paymaster Mitchell C. McDonald, U. S. N., attached to
                  the battleship _Texas_, cordially accepts an
                  invitation to join the Society.

 1897. Feb. 19.   Arthur H. Chase, state librarian of New Hampshire,
                  expresses a desire to receive the publications of the
                  Society for the state library. He says: “I assure you
                  the publications will be of great value to us.”

 1897. Feb. 23.   Henry Carey Baird, Philadelphia, Pa., writes. His
                  grandfather was a founder of the Hibernian Society of
                  Philadelphia (1790).

 1897. March 3.   Hon. Ignatius Donnelly, author of “The Great
                  Cryptogram,” is admitted to the Society.

 1897. March 6.   Rev. Michael O’Brien, Lowell, Mass., becomes a life
                  member.

 1897. March 9.   Heman W. Chaplin, Boston, Mass., writes desiring to
                  become a member of the Society. He is a descendant of
                  the O’Briens of Machias, Me., patriots of the
                  Revolution.

 1897. March 15.  Hon. Daniel H. Hastings, governor of Pennsylvania,
                  expresses regrets at his inability to attend the
                  meeting on the 19th prox.

 1897. March 17.  Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass., a member of the Executive
                  Council of the Society, reads a paper before the Irish
                  Society of that city on “The Irish Element Among the
                  Founders of Lowell.”

 1897. March 26.  C. H. Meade, Germantown, Pa., writes informing the
                  Society of the serious illness of President-General
                  Meade.

 1897. April 5.   Call issued for the second meeting of the Society (to
                  be held on the 19th inst.).

 1897. April 9.   Letter from Gen. John Cochrane, New York city, a
                  descendant of an officer of the Revolution.

 1897. April 10.  Letter written by Charles E. Brown, town clerk of
                  historic Concord, Mass.

 1897. April 17.  Letter written by Leonard A. Saville, town clerk of
                  Lexington, Mass., acknowledging on behalf of the
                  selectmen and himself, an invitation to be present as
                  guests on the 19th inst. They are unable to attend
                  owing to a home celebration.

 1897. April 19.  The second meeting of the Society. Held in the Revere
                  House, Boston, Mass. Thomas J. Gargan of Boston
                  presides. Four papers read.

 1897. April 19.  The first paper at this meeting was by Thomas Hamilton
                  Murray, the secretary-general, on “The Irish Bacons
                  who settled at Dedham, Mass., in 1640,” one of whose
                  descendants, John Bacon, was killed April 19, 1775, in
                  the fight at West Cambridge (battle of Lexington).

 1897. April 19.  The second paper at the meeting was by John C.
                  Linehan, treasurer-general, on “The Seizure of the
                  Powder at Fort William and Mary,” by Maj. John
                  Sullivan and his associates, some of which powder was
                  later dealt out to the patriots at Bunker Hill.

 1897. April 19.  The third paper was by Edward J. Brandon, city clerk
                  of Cambridge, Mass., on “The Battle of Lexington,
                  Concord, and Cambridge,” during which he read a list
                  of Irish names borne by minute men or militia in the
                  battle of the nineteenth of April, 1775.

 1897. April 19.  The fourth paper was by Joseph Smith, member of the
                  Executive Council, on “The Irishman Ethnologically
                  Considered.”

 1897. April 21.  Henry A. May, Roslindale, Mass., writes for
                  information concerning the Society. He states that he
                  is a descendant through his mother, Roxanna Butler of
                  Pelham, N. H., from James Butler, the planter of
                  Lancaster, Mass. (1653), who came from Ireland, and
                  was the largest land owner in what is now Worcester
                  county. He owned land in Dunstable, Woburn and
                  Billerica, where he died in 1681. His son, Deacon John
                  Butler, was the first child of Irish parentage born in
                  Woburn, Mass., and John was the first settler of what
                  is now Pelham, N. H., and lies buried there. A
                  monument was erected to his memory on “Pelham Green,”
                  in the centre of the town of Pelham, in 1886, by his
                  descendants, some 1,200 being present at the
                  dedication in June of that year.

 1897. April 29.  Death of Col. Jeremiah W. Coveney, postmaster of
                  Boston, the first member of the Society to pass away.

 1897. April 30.  C. H. Meade states that his father, the
                  president-general, is in a critical condition.

 1897. May 4.     Death at Washington, D. C., of the president-general
                  of the Society, Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S.
                  N.

 1897. May 5.     Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C., a member of the
                  Executive Council of the Society, pens a letter of
                  condolence to Richard W. Meade, Jr., on the death of
                  the latter’s father, the Society’s president-general.

 1897. May 6.     Edward A. Moseley, just mentioned, writes to
                  Secretary-General Murray relative to the obsequies of
                  the president-general. Mr. Moseley states that the
                  matter of a floral tribute from the Society has been
                  arranged.

 1897. May 7.     Letter from Richard W. Meade, Jr., to Mr. Moseley,
                  thanking the Society, through him, for the floral
                  emblem contributed, and stating that it “now rests on
                  my father’s grave.”

 1897. May 15.    First meeting of the Executive Council of the Society
                  held in Boston, Mass. Present: Thomas J. Gargan,
                  Boston; John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.; Thomas
                  Hamilton Murray, Lawrence, Mass.; Joseph Smith,
                  Lowell, Mass.; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass., and
                  Thomas B. Lawler, Worcester, Mass. Mr. Gargan
                  presided.

 1897. May 15.    At this first meeting of the Council, Edward A.
                  Moseley, of Washington, D. C., was chosen
                  president-general of the Society, to fill the
                  unexpired term of the late Admiral Meade. Mr. Moseley
                  is secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
                  Washington, D. C. He was born in 1846, at Newburyport,
                  Mass. He is a member of the Society of Colonial Wars,
                  a member of the Society of the Sons of the American
                  Revolution, a member of the Society of the Sons of the
                  Revolution, a member of the Bunker Hill Monument
                  Association (his great-grandfather fought in the
                  battle as captain in General Putnam’s brigade from
                  Connecticut); has received the thanks of the
                  commonwealth of Massachusetts “for distinguished
                  services in the cause of humanity”; is the
                  great-great-grandson of Col. Jonathan Buck;
                  great-grandson of Col. Ebenezer Buck; also claims
                  descent from Col. William Gilmore of New Hampshire,
                  formerly of Coleraine, Ireland—all Revolutionary
                  heroes.

 1897. May 24.    Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city, becomes a life
                  member of the Society.

 1897. June.      Among the cities officially visited this month by the
                  secretary-general was Lynn, Mass., where special
                  courtesies were extended him by Daniel Donovan and
                  Capt. P. S. Curry, both of that place.

 1897. June 6.    Secretary-General Murray addresses a meeting at
                  Portland, Me., in behalf of the Society. James
                  Cunningham of Portland presides.

 1897. June 14.   President-General Moseley writes to James Cunningham
                  of Portland, Me., thanking the latter for his interest
                  in getting up the meeting in that city on the 6th
                  inst.

 1897. June 14.   Prof. Maurice Francis Egan of the Catholic University,
                  Washington, D. C., becomes a member of the Society.

 1897. June 24.   John R. Alley of Boston, Mass., forwards check for
                  $50. Life membership fee.

 1897. June 30.   Second meeting of the Council of the Society. Held in
                  the Parker House, Boston, Mass. James Jeffrey Roche of
                  Boston presided. Treasurer-General Linehan was
                  authorized to make arrangements for the first annual
                  field day of the Society, the same to be held at
                  Newcastle, N. H.

 1897. July.      The secretary-general visited Peabody and Salem,
                  Mass., this month, being assisted in obtaining members
                  there by Thomas Carroll of the former place.

 1897. July 20.   Capt. John Drum, Tenth U. S. Infantry, admitted to
                  membership.

 1897. July 28.   Third meeting of the Council of the Society. Held at
                  Salisbury Beach, Mass. President-General Moseley
                  occupied the chair. Mr. Moseley had earlier in the day
                  entertained the Council at lunch in the Wolfe Tavern,
                  Newburyport, Mass.

 1897. Aug. 4.    Death of Henry V. Donovan, M. D., Lawrence, Mass., a
                  member of the Society and a graduate of Harvard
                  University.

 1897. Aug. 30.   Rear Admiral Belknap, U. S. N. (retired), writes from
                  Newport, R. I., regretting his inability to be present
                  at the meeting to be held in Pawtucket, R. I., on the
                  1st prox.

 1897. September. An article descriptive of the Society’s purposes
                  appears in the current issue of the _Granite Monthly_,
                  Concord, N. H. It is from the pen of Treasurer-General
                  Linehan.

 1897. Sept. 1.   Fourth meeting of the Council takes place at the
                  Benedict House, Pawtucket, R. I. James Jeffrey Roche
                  of Boston, Mass., presided. Secretary-General Murray
                  read extracts from old Rhode Island documents
                  containing mention of early Irish settlers.

 1897. Sept. 1.   The Council was entertained at a banquet this evening
                  by the Rhode Island members of the Society. The event
                  took place at the Benedict House, Pawtucket. Hon. Hugh
                  J. Carroll, ex-mayor of the city, presided.
                  Secretary-General Murray, then a resident of
                  Pawtucket, delivered an address of welcome.

 1897. Sept. 18.  Fifth meeting of the Council. Held in the Parker
                  House, Boston, Mass. James Jeffrey Roche, of Boston,
                  presides. A gift to the library of the Society from
                  Gen. St. Clair A. Mulholland, Philadelphia, Pa., is
                  announced. It comprises a copy of the “History of the
                  Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and of the Hibernian
                  Society,” of that city.

 1897. Sept. 21.  Hon. John C. Linehan, treasurer-general of the
                  Society, presents the library a copy of the “Addresses
                  at the Dedication of the Monument Erected to the
                  Memory of Matthew Thornton at Merrimack, N. H.,
                  September 29, 1892.”

 1897. Sept. 24.  William McConway, Pittsburg, Pa., writes to
                  President-General Moseley, enclosing life membership
                  fee.

 1897. Sept. 28.  Edward Fitzpatrick, a member of the organization,
                  contributes an article to the _Louisville_ (Ky.)
                  _Times_, on “Irish Settlers in Louisville and
                  Vicinity.”

 1897. Sept. 28.  Hon. Joseph T. Lawless, secretary of state of
                  Virginia, writes a cordial letter, and desires to be
                  admitted to membership.

 1897. Oct. 7.    Death of Gen. John Cochrane, a member of the Society,
                  New York city.

 1897. Oct. 23.   Hon. Elisha Dyer, governor of Rhode Island, writes
                  accepting an invitation extended him to join the
                  Society.

 1897. Oct. 23.   Death of Laurence J. Smith, Lowell, Mass., a member of
                  the Society.

 1897. Nov. 10.   Governor Dyer of Rhode Island writes, regretting that
                  he will be unable to attend the meeting of the Society
                  on the 16th.

 1897. Nov. 10.   E. Benjamin Andrews, D. D., LL. D., president of Brown
                  University, sends a letter in which he cordially
                  expresses his appreciation of the purposes of the
                  Society. On another occasion he writes of the
                  organization: “I wish it success with all my heart.”

 1897. Nov. 15.   The Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New York city, in
                  session this evening, send fraternal greetings to the
                  Society, the bearer thereof being Thomas B. Lawler,
                  the Society’s librarian and archivist.

 1897. Nov. 16.   The third meeting of the Society was held this evening
                  in Young’s Hotel, Boston, Mass. Gen. James R.
                  O’Beirne, New York, presided at the business session,
                  and Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, at the banquet
                  immediately following.

 1897. Nov. 16.   At this meeting an address was delivered by John
                  Mackinnon Robertson, of London, England, author of
                  “The Saxon and the Celt.” Dennis Harvey Sheahan,
                  ex-clerk of the Rhode Island house of representatives,
                  read an interesting paper.

 1897. Dec. 7.    Secretary-General Murray addressed the Churchmen’s
                  Club of Rhode Island, at Providence, on “Five Colonial
                  Rhode Islanders.” Mr. Justice Stiness of the Rhode
                  Island Supreme Court presided. The five treated by Mr.
                  Murray were all of Irish birth or extraction.

 1897. Dec. 11.   Sixth meeting of the Council of the Society is held in
                  the Parker House, Boston, Mass. Thomas J. Gargan, of
                  Boston, presides. It is voted to prepare for
                  publication, and publish, the first volume of the
                  Journal of the Society’s Proceedings. The volume thus
                  authorized was issued some months later. There is
                  received from Dr. J. C. O’Connell, Washington, D. C.,
                  a copy of his work on “The Irish in the Revolution and
                  in the Civil War.”

 1897. Dec. 18.   Death of Hon. Owen A. Galvin, a member of the Society,
                  Boston, Mass.

 1898. Jan. 14.   Joseph F. Swords, of Hartford, the Society’s state
                  vice-president for Connecticut at this time,
                  contributes a letter to the Boston _Pilot_ treating of
                  the origin of the family name Swords in Ireland.

 1898. Jan. 25.   Death of Hon. Charles B. Gafney, a member of the
                  Society, Rochester, N. H.

 1898. Jan. 29.   Seventh meeting of the Council of the Society. Held in
                  the Parker House, Boston, Mass., Thomas J. Gargan,
                  presiding. It was decided to hold the annual meeting
                  and banquet of the Society at the Hotel San Remo, New
                  York city, on the evening of the 17th prox.

 1898. Feb. 7.    Hon. Thomas M. Waller, ex-governor of Connecticut,
                  qualifies as a member of the Society.

 1898. Feb. 17.   Eighth meeting of the Council, held at the Hotel San
                  Remo, New York city, Thomas J. Gargan, of Boston,
                  presiding.

 1898. Feb. 17.   Annual meeting of the Society at the San Remo, New
                  York city, following the meeting of the Council. Gen.
                  James R. O’Beirne, of New York, presides. Edward A.
                  Moseley, Washington D. C., is reëlected
                  president-general.

 1898. Feb. 17.   Annual banquet of the Society at the San Remo,
                  immediately following the annual meeting. General
                  O’Beirne also presided at the banquet. Resolutions of
                  sorrow adopted on the loss of the U. S. battleship
                  _Maine_, in Havana harbor, and copies of the
                  resolutions ordered transmitted to the president of
                  the United States, and to the secretary of the navy.

 1898. Feb. 17.   At this annual banquet, Joseph Smith, of Lowell,
                  Mass., a member of the Council of the Society,
                  contributed a paper on “Some Ways in which American
                  History is falsified.” Addresses were delivered by
                  Hon. Thomas Dunn English, of Newark, N. J.; Dr. Thomas
                  Addis Emmet, New York city; Judge Wauhope Lynn, New
                  York city, and other gentlemen.

 1898. Feb. 18.   Hon. John D. Crimmins, of New York city, gives a
                  reception to the Society and entertains the latter at
                  lunch at his residence, 40 East 68th street.

 1898. Feb. 24.   John Goodwin, New York city, forwards check for $50 in
                  payment of life membership fee.

 1898. Feb. 25.   The navy department, Washington, D. C., acknowledges
                  receipt of the resolutions of condolence on the loss
                  of the battleship _Maine_, adopted by the Society on
                  the 17th instant, and returns thanks “in the name of
                  the officers and men of the navy.”

 1898. March 3.   Hon. Robert T. Davis, Fall River, Mass., ex-mayor of
                  Fall River, and ex-member of congress, becomes a
                  member of the Society.

 1898. March 5.   Andrew Athy, Worcester, Mass., joins the Society as a
                  life member.

 1898. March 13.  Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville, Ky., a member of the
                  Society, contributes an article to the _Louisville_
                  (Ky.) _Courier-Journal_, on “The Lost State of Clark.”
                  He mentions Thomas Connolly, who was a fifer in
                  Clark’s regiment.

 1898. March 14.  Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, mayor of Newport, R. I.,
                  admitted to the Society.

 1898. March 17.  Secretary-General Murray and Treasurer-General Linehan
                  are guests at a banquet of the Irish Society of
                  Lowell, Mass. Joseph Smith of that city presides.

 1898. March 27.  Thomas J. Gargan, of the Society’s Council, and Thomas
                  Hamilton Murray, secretary-general of the Society,
                  contribute to a symposium in the _Boston Sunday Globe_
                  on the subject of an Anglo-American alliance. Both
                  oppose the idea.

 1898. April 18.  President Andrews of Brown University writes,
                  accepting invitation to attend the meeting in
                  Providence, R. I., on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 19.  Letter written by Harvey Wheeler, chairman of the
                  selectmen of historic Concord, Mass., sending hearty
                  greetings to the participants in the meeting under the
                  auspices of the Society on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 20.  Hon. John H. Stiness, a justice of the Rhode Island
                  supreme court, sends regrets that he cannot attend the
                  meeting on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 21.  Ninth meeting of the Society’s Council is held at the
                  Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I. Letter read from
                  Hon. Eli Thayer, Worcester, Mass.

 1898. April 21.  In the evening, following this Council meeting, a
                  reception and banquet was given the Council by the
                  Rhode Island members of the Society, at the
                  Narragansett, Providence. Dennis Harvey Sheahan, of
                  Providence, presided.

 1898. April 21.  The post-prandial exercises at this banquet included a
                  paper by Thomas Hamilton Murray, the
                  secretary-general, on “Matthew Watson, an Irish
                  Settler of Barrington, R. I., 1722.” There were
                  addresses by President Andrews of Brown University;
                  Prof. Alonzo Williams of Brown; Hon. John C. Linehan,
                  Concord, N. H.; Rev. Arthur J. Teeling, Lynn, Mass.;
                  Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Capt. E. O’Meagher
                  Condon, New York city; James Jeffrey Roche and Thomas
                  J. Gargan, Boston, Mass., and other gentlemen.

 1898. April 21.  Prof. William M. Sloane of Columbia University, New
                  York, admitted to membership.

 1898. April 28.  James G. Hickey, manager of the United States Hotel,
                  Boston, Mass., becomes a life member of the Society.

 1898. May 15.    Death of Andrew Athy, Worcester, Mass., a life member.

 1898. May 15.    Secretary-General Murray addressed a meeting at
                  Bangor, Me., in the interests of the Society. William
                  F. Curran, of Bangor, presided.

 1898. May 21.    Secretary Murray visits Springfield, Mass., to enlarge
                  the Society’s membership, and receives valuable
                  assistance from Edward A. Hall and Dr. Philip Kilroy,
                  both of that city.

 1898. June.      Secretary Murray this month visited Portsmouth and
                  Dover, N. H.; New Haven, Conn.; New Bedford and
                  Holyoke, Mass. Special courtesies were shown him at
                  Portsmouth by John Griffin; at Dover, by John A. Hoye;
                  and at New Bedford by Edmund O’Keefe and Rev. James F.
                  Clark.

 1898. June 3.    Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville, Ky., contributes an
                  article to _The Times_ of that city on “Early Irish
                  Settlers in Kentucky.”

 1898. June 21.   Death of John R. Alley, Boston, Mass., a life member
                  of the Society.

 1898. June 22.   The secretary-general addresses a meeting at Chicopee,
                  Mass., Rev. John J. McCoy, of Chicopee, presiding.

 1898. June 25.   Death of Joseph H. Fay, M. D., Fall River, Mass., a
                  member of the Society and graduate of the University
                  of Vermont.

 1898. June 30.   First field day of the Society. Held at Newcastle, N.
                  H., with headquarters at the Hotel Wentworth. The
                  exercises in the evening were presided over by Hon.
                  John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H. Bernard Corr, of
                  Boston, Mass., read a paper on “The Ancestors of Gen.
                  John Sullivan.” Addresses were delivered by Mayor
                  Tilton, of Portsmouth, N. H.; Dr. William D. Collins,
                  Haverhill, Mass.; John F. Doyle, New York city; James
                  F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H.; William J. Kelly,
                  Kittery, Me.; Dr. W. H. A. Lyons, Portsmouth, N. H.;
                  Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Capt. E. O’Meagher
                  Condon, New York city; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston,
                  Mass.; Charles H. Clary, Hallowell, Me.; John Griffin,
                  Portsmouth, N. H.; James H. McGlinchy, Portland, Me.;
                  Secretary Murray and other gentlemen.

 1898. June 30.   Charles H. Clary, of Hallowell, Me., who is here
                  mentioned as making an address this evening, is a
                  descendant of “John Clary of Newcastle, province of
                  New Hampshire, who was published to Jane Mahoney of
                  Georgetown, Me., 1750.” John settled in Georgetown
                  presumably about the time of his marriage. Four
                  children were born before 1760.

 1898. June 30.   A communication from President-General Moseley was
                  read at the exercises this evening by the
                  secretary-general. Mr. Moseley called attention to the
                  fact that Hon. John D. Long, secretary of the navy,
                  had consented to name one of the new torpedo-boats,
                  soon to be constructed, the _O’Brien_, and to name two
                  of the new torpedo-boat destroyers, respectively,
                  _Barry_ and _Macdonough_, these names to perpetuate
                  the fame of three American patriots of Irish blood.
                  The meeting adopted a vote of thanks to Secretary
                  Long.

 1898. June 30.   Secretary-General Murray, this evening, called
                  attention to the fact that on Sept. 10 would occur the
                  anniversary of the battle of Lake Erie when Commodore
                  Perry, the son of an Irish mother, administered such a
                  thorough defeat to the British. It was suggested that
                  the anniversary be duly observed by the Society.
                  Referred to the Council. The secretary-general also
                  suggested that the anniversary of the surrender of the
                  British General, Burgoyne, Oct. 17, and that of the
                  surrender of Lord Cornwallis, Oct. 19, be celebrated
                  by a public meeting in Boston or New York. Referred to
                  the Council.

 1898. July.      During this month Mr. Murray, the secretary-general,
                  visited Lewiston, Augusta, Hallowell, and Gardiner,
                  Me., in the interests of the Society, being greatly
                  assisted in the three latter places by Thomas J.
                  Lynch, a prominent lawyer of Augusta. Mr. Murray also
                  visited Biddeford, Me., where he addressed a meeting,
                  specially called, and presided over by Cornelius
                  Horigan, of that city. He was also materially assisted
                  by Rev. T. P. Linehan, of Biddeford. Secretary Murray
                  likewise visited, this month, Manchester, N. H., and
                  was introduced to prominent people there by Michael
                  O’Dowd, of Manchester. The object of the
                  secretary-general’s visit to these places was to
                  explain the purposes of the organization and to obtain
                  additional members for the latter.

 1898. July 1.    Capt. John Drum, Tenth United States Infantry, a
                  member of the Society, killed in battle before
                  Santiago de Cuba.

 1898. July 25‒26. Secretary-General Murray visits Nashua, N. H., and
                  while there addresses a gathering of several gentlemen
                  invited to meet him. Dr. T. A. McCarthy, of Nashua,
                  presides.

 1898. August.    The Society issued this month a pamphlet entitled:
                  “Irish Schoolmasters in the American Colonies,
                  1640‒1775, with a Continuation of the Subject During
                  and After the War of the Revolution.” The authors are
                  Hon. John C. Linehan, the Society’s treasurer-general,
                  and Thomas Hamilton Murray, the secretary. An edition
                  of 2,000 copies was printed.

 1898. Aug. 4.    Secretary Murray addressed a meeting at Rutland, Vt.,
                  T. W. Maloney, a leading lawyer of that city,
                  presiding. During his stay in Rutland, Mr. Murray also
                  received valuable assistance from John D. Hanrahan, M.
                  D., of that city.

 1898. Aug. 18.   Tenth meeting of the Council of the Society. It was
                  held in the Parker House, Boston, Mass.
                  President-General Moseley occupied the chair. A minute
                  was adopted on the death of Capt. John Drum, Tenth
                  United States Infantry. Capt. Drum’s son, John D., of
                  Boston, was elected to membership in the Society.

 1898. Aug. 25.   Death of City Marshal John E. Conner, of Chicopee,
                  Mass., a member of the Society.

 1898. Aug. 30, 31; Sept. 1. Secretary Murray visits Waterbury, Conn., and obtains
                  several new members for the Society. He receives
                  courtesies from Dr. J. F. Hayes and other gentlemen of
                  that city.

 1898. September. The Society issued this month a pamphlet on “The
                  ‘Scotch-Irish’ Shibboleth Analyzed and Rejected; with
                  Some Reference to the Present ‘Anglo-Saxon’ Comedy.”
                  The author is Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass. An edition
                  of 1,500 copies was printed.

 1898. Sept. 3.   Obsequies in Boston, Mass., of Capt. John Drum, Tenth
                  U. S. Infantry, his body having been brought home from
                  Cuba. James Jeffrey Roche, of Boston, represented the
                  Society as a pall bearer. The organization contributed
                  a floral offering.

 1898. Sept. 23.  Death at Newport, R. I., of Rev. Philip Grace, D. D.,
                  a member of the Society.

 1898. October.   Secretary-General Murray visited this month, among
                  other places, Philadelphia, Pa., and was assisted in
                  his work there by Hugh McCaffrey of that city, a life
                  member of the Society.

 1898. Oct. 21.   Henry Collins Walsh, a descendant of Gen. Stephen
                  Moylan of the Revolution, becomes a member of the
                  Society.

 1898. Nov. 11.   James Whitcomb Riley, the “Hoosier Poet,”
                  Indianapolis, Ind., admitted to membership.

 1898. Nov. 14, 15, 16. Secretary-General Murray visits Albany, N. Y., in the
                  interests of the organization.

 1898. December.  Death of Capt. John M. Tobin at Knoxville, Penn., a
                  member of the Society. He was a veteran of the Civil
                  War, and in the war with Spain had been a
                  quartermaster in the First Brigade, Second Division,
                  First Army Corps.

 1898. Dec. 3.    Eleventh meeting of the Council. Held in the Parker
                  House, Boston, Mass., Thomas J. Gargan, of Boston,
                  presiding. Committees were appointed to take
                  appropriate action on the death of City Marshal John
                  E. Conner, of Chicopee, Mass., and on that of Rev.
                  Philip Grace, D. D., Newport, R. I.

 1899. Jan. 14.   Gen. George Bell, U. S. A. (retired), Washington, D.
                  C., is admitted to membership.

 1899. Jan. 19.   Twelfth meeting of the Council of the Society. Held at
                  Sherry’s, 44th street and Fifth avenue, New York city.
                  Thomas J. Gargan, of Boston, Mass., presided. Among
                  the members of the Council present were Hon. John D.
                  Crimmins, New York; Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; James
                  Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.; Francis C. Travers, New
                  York; Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.; Thomas B.
                  Lawler, New York, and Thomas Hamilton Murray,
                  Woonsocket, R. I.

 1899. Jan. 19.   Annual meeting of the Society held at Sherry’s, New
                  York city, immediately following the meeting of the
                  Council. Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York, in the
                  absence of the president-general, presided. Thomas J.
                  Gargan of Boston was chosen president-general of the
                  Society for the ensuing year; Hon. John D. Crimmins,
                  New York, was chosen vice-president-general; Thomas
                  Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I., was reëlected
                  secretary-general; Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N.
                  H., was reëlected treasurer-general; Thomas B. Lawler,
                  New York, was reëlected librarian and archivist.

 1899. Jan. 19.   The annual banquet of the Society was held at
                  Sherry’s, New York, immediately after the annual
                  meeting. Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York, presided.
                  The attendance numbered about 175 gentlemen, many
                  cities and states being represented. The post-prandial
                  exercises included the reading of four original
                  papers, viz.: By Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York, a
                  paper on “Irish Emigration During the Seventeenth and
                  Eighteenth Centuries”; by Hon. John C. Linehan,
                  Concord, N. H., a paper on “Some Pre-Revolutionary
                  Irishmen”; by Rev. John J. McCoy, P. R., Chicopee,
                  Mass., a paper on “The Irish Element in the Second
                  Massachusetts Volunteers in the Recent War” (with
                  Spain); by James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass., a paper
                  on the general lines of the Society’s work. There were
                  also several addresses.

 1899. Jan. 20.   Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, governor of New York state,
                  gives a reception to the members of the Society at the
                  residence of his sister, Mrs. Cowles, Madison avenue,
                  New York city. He is assisted in receiving by Mrs.
                  Cowles, and the members are presented by Gen. James R.
                  O’Beirne, state vice-president of the Society for New
                  York. Governor Roosevelt delivers an address.
                  Following the reception, lunch is served.

 1899. Jan. 20.   Subsequent to the reception by Governor Roosevelt, the
                  members are received by Hon. John D. Crimmins,
                  vice-president-general of the Society, at his New York
                  residence, 40 East 68th street.

 1899. Feb. 9.    Rev. Richard Henebry, Ph. D., professor of Keltic
                  languages and literature, Catholic University,
                  Washington, D. C., admitted to the Society.

 1899. Feb. 15.   James McGovern, New York city, admitted to life
                  membership.

 1899. Feb. 19.   John J. Lenehan, New York city, admitted to life
                  membership.

 1899. March.     A work is issued this month on “The Irish Washingtons
                  at Home and Abroad, Together with some mention of the
                  Ancestry of the American Pater Patriæ.” The authors
                  are Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general of the
                  Society, and George Washington, of Dublin, Ireland.
                  The work is dedicated to the Society.

 1899. March 9.   Myles Tierney, New York city, enrolled as a life
                  member of the organization.

 1899. March 16.  Communication written by Rev. William L. Ledwith, D.
                  D., librarian of the Presbyterian Historical Society,
                  Philadelphia, Pa., asking for information relative to
                  the American-Irish Historical Society. He concludes:
                  “The lines on which your Society and ours are working
                  must often meet.”

 1899. March 19.  Death of Hon. Patrick Walsh, mayor of Augusta, Ga.,
                  ex-United States senator, and member of the Society.

 1899. March 30.  Maj. William H. Donovan of the Ninth Massachusetts is
                  commissioned colonel of the regiment. He was one of
                  the majors of the command in the war with Spain, and
                  participated in the gallant work of the regiment on
                  Cuban soil. Colonel Donovan is one of our members in
                  Lawrence, Mass.

 1899. March 31.  Death at Boston, Mass., of Col. Patrick T. Hanley, a
                  veteran of the Civil War, and member of the Society.

 1899. April 9.   Death of Hon. John H. Sullivan, East Boston, Mass., a
                  member of the Society.

 1899. April 11.  The selectmen and town clerk of Lexington, Mass.,
                  express regrets that they will not be able to attend
                  the meeting at Providence, R. I., on the 19th inst.
                  Their letter bears the official seal of the town.

 1899. April 13.  E. Benjamin Andrews, superintendent of public schools,
                  Chicago, Ill., writes expressing his regret that he
                  cannot attend the meeting on the 19th inst.

 1899. April 15.  Death of Hon. Eli Thayer, Worcester, Mass., a member
                  of the organization.

 1899. April 16.  Death of William F. Cummings, M. D., Rutland, Vt., a
                  graduate of the University of Vermont, and member of
                  the Society.

 1899. April 19.  The thirteenth meeting of the Society’s Council is
                  held in the Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I., on
                  this, the anniversary of the battle of Lexington
                  (1775). Thomas J. Gargan, president-general of the
                  Society, occupies the chair. Stephen J. Richardson,
                  New York city, is introduced, and explains the plan
                  and scope of a projected “Encyclopædia Hibernica.” The
                  Council approves the work. It is voted that the annual
                  field day of the Society, this year, be held at
                  Elizabeth, N. J., on the occasion of the launching of
                  the U. S. torpedo-boat _O’Brien_.

 1899. April 19.  Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city,
                  vice-president-general of the Society, at this meeting
                  of the Council personally subscribes five hundred
                  dollars for the general purposes of the organization.
                  This is the largest individual gift the Society has
                  thus far received.

 1899. April 19.  Lieut. Martin L. Crimmins, 18th U. S. Infantry, is
                  admitted to membership. Lieutenant Crimmins is at this
                  date with his regiment in the Philippines. He is a son
                  of Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city.

 1899. April 19.  Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass., and Stephen J.
                  Geoghegan, New York city, request to be recorded as
                  life members.

 1899. April 19.  Following the meeting of the Council the members
                  thereof are received and banqueted at the
                  Narragansett, in Providence, by the Rhode Island
                  members of the Society. M. J. Harson, of Providence,
                  presides. Addresses are made by President-General
                  Gargan, Vice-President-General Crimmins,
                  Treasurer-General Linehan; Thomas F. O’Malley,
                  Somerville, Mass.; Rev. S. Banks Nelson
                  (Presbyterian), Woonsocket, R. I.; Rev. Frank L.
                  Phalen (Unitarian), Concord, N. H.; Capt. E. O’Meagher
                  Condon, New York city, and Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.

 1899. April 20.  Miss Annetta O’Brien Walker, Portland, Me., writes to
                  President-General Gargan, with reference to the
                  forthcoming launching of the torpedo-boat _O’Brien_.
                  She is a great-grandaughter of Capt. O’Brien, brother
                  to the patriot in whose honor the boat is named. Miss
                  Walker desires to be present at the launching.

 1899. April 29.  Death of Joseph J. Kelley, East Cambridge, Mass., a
                  member of the Society.

 1899. May 8.     William Gorman, Philadelphia, Pa., enrolled as a life
                  member.

 1899. May 17.    Order issued by the war department to Major William
                  Quinton, 14th U. S. Infantry, a member of the Society,
                  to proceed from Boston to San Francisco, and thence to
                  Manila, for service in the Philippines.

 1899. May 19.    Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York city, subscribes one
                  hundred dollars for the publication fund of the
                  Society.

 1899. May 27.    Lewis Nixon, builder of the U. S. torpedo-boat
                  _O’Brien_, writes from the Crescent shipyard,
                  Elizabeth, N. J., that: “The uncertainty as to the
                  delivery of certain forgings, making in Pennsylvania
                  for the _O’Brien_, renders it impossible, at this
                  time, for me to give you even an approximate date for
                  the launching. I am endeavoring to get some
                  information in this matter, and just as soon as I
                  receive it I shall communicate with you.” Mr. Nixon
                  states that he takes pride in the fact that he is
                  “building the _O’Brien_, which is a name honorably and
                  valorously associated with the early history of our
                  navy.”

 1899. May 30.    Secretary-General Murray attends a preliminary meeting
                  held in Boston, Mass., to form a Franco-American
                  Historical Society, and makes an address expressing
                  good wishes on behalf of the American-Irish Historical
                  body.

 1899. July.      Announcement is made that a member of the Society,
                  Rev. Cyrus Townsend Brady, Philadelphia, Pa., has
                  written a novel entitled, “For the Freedom of the
                  Sea,” the same being a romance of the War of 1812.

 1899. July 22.   Death of William Slattery, a member of the Society;
                  associate justice of the police court, Holyoke, Mass.;
                  graduate of Harvard University.

 1899. Aug. 2.    Rev. Frank L. Phalen, of the Society, is commissioned
                  chaplain of the Second Regiment of Infantry
                  (Massachusetts).

 1899. Aug. 6.    Death of Rev. George W. Pepper, D. D., Cleveland, O.,
                  vice-president of the Society for that state.

 1899. Aug. 18.   The librarian of the University of Washington,
                  Seattle, Wash., requests for the institution copies of
                  the reports and other publications of the Society. He
                  says: “We are very anxious to obtain these, and will
                  gladly pay all transportation.”

 1899. Aug. 20.   Death of Rev. Denis Scannell, rector of St. Anne’s
                  church, Worcester, Mass., a member of the Society.

 1899. Aug. 29.   Fourteenth meeting of the Council. Place: Aquidneck
                  House, Newport, R. I. Hon. John C. Linehan, of
                  Concord, N. H., presides. This is the anniversary of
                  the battle of Rhode Island, 1778, in which the
                  American forces were commanded by Gen. John Sullivan.

 1899. Aug. 29.   Suggestion made at this Council meeting, and favorably
                  considered, that the Society erect a bronze tablet to
                  the memory of soldiers of Irish birth or lineage who
                  were at the battle of Bunker Hill, 1775, fighting in
                  behalf of American liberty. A committe is appointed to
                  further consider the matter.

 1899. Aug. 29.   This evening, subsequent to the Council meeting,
                  dinner was partaken of at the Aquidneck by some 25
                  gentlemen including members of the Society and
                  prominent citizens of Newport who had been invited to
                  be present. The post-prandial exercises were presided
                  over by Hon. Charles E. Gorman of Providence, R. I.
                  Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, mayor of Newport, R. I.,
                  delivered an address of welcome, as a member of the
                  Society and as mayor of the city. The paper of the
                  evening was by Thomas Hamilton Murray,
                  secretary-general of the Society, on “The Battle of
                  Rhode Island, 1778.” Addresses were made by Hon. John
                  C. Linehan, treasurer-general of the Society; by Rev.
                  L. J. Deady of Newport, R. I.; by Dennis H. Tierney of
                  Waterbury, Conn.; by P. J. McCarthy of Providence, R.
                  I., and by J. Stacy Brown, city solicitor of Newport.
                  An original letter written by Gen. John Sullivan in
                  1778, was read and exhibited.

 1899. Sept. 9.   In answer to an inquiry on behalf of the Society, the
                  United States navy department replies, giving
                  information as to the percentage of completion
                  attained by the torpedo-boats _Blakeley_ and _O’Brien_
                  and the torpedo-boat destroyers _Barry_ and
                  _Macdonough_.

 1899. Oct. 2.    J. F. Hayes, M. D., the Society’s state vice-president
                  for Connecticut, is reëlected to the Waterbury, Conn.,
                  board of education.

 1899. October.   Reitz, secretary of state for the Transvaal, announces
                  the appointment of Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York
                  city, as commissioner extraordinary to represent the
                  Transvaal’s interests in the United States. General
                  O’Beirne is our Society’s state vice-president for New
                  York.

 1899. Oct. 7.    Fifteenth meeting of the Council of the Society is
                  held in Boston, Mass. President-General Gargan
                  occupies the chair. There are also present Messrs.
                  Linehan, Smith, Murray, and Roche. It is voted to
                  invite Sir Thomas Lipton, owner of the yacht
                  _Shamrock_, to be a guest of the Society on such date
                  as may suit his convenience. A letter is received from
                  Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city, proposing Hon.
                  Thomas H. Carter, United States senator from Montana,
                  and Thomas J. Cummins, of New York city, for
                  membership in the Society. Both gentlemen are
                  admitted.

 1899. Oct. 11.   Sir Thomas Lipton, owner of the yacht _Shamrock_,
                  challenger for the America’s cup, writes to
                  Secretary-General Murray, cordially acknowledging the
                  invitation to be a guest of the Society. Sir Thomas’
                  letter is dated “Steam Yacht _Erin_, Sandy Hook.” He
                  says: “Nothing would give me greater pleasure than to
                  avail myself of their [the members’] hospitality but
                  under the present uncertain conditions of weather it
                  is doubtful when the contest will be finished, which
                  renders it impossible for me, meantime, to make any
                  arrangements of the nature you are good enough to
                  suggest.”

 1899. Oct. 12.   Letter received stating that James F. Brennan,
                  Peterborough, N. H., has recently been appointed by
                  the governor and council of New Hampshire to be a
                  member of the board of state library commissioners.
                  Mr. Brennan is our Society’s vice-president for New
                  Hampshire.

 1899. Nov. 7.    Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, of the Society, is elected
                  mayor of Newport, R. I., for the sixth consecutive
                  time.

 1899. Nov. 15.   Reception and banquet at the Bellevue, Beacon street,
                  Boston, Mass., under the auspices of the Society.
                  President-General Gargan presided. Among the guests
                  was William Ludwig, the Irish baritone. The paper of
                  the evening was by Michael E. Hennessy of the Boston
                  _Daily Globe_, his topic being, “Men of Irish Blood
                  Who Have Attained Distinction in American Journalism.”

 1889. Nov. 17.   Letter received from Col. James Armstrong, Charleston,
                  S. C. Colonel Armstrong is an editor on the Charleston
                  _News and Courier_; harbor master of the port. He
                  served on the staff of Governor Wade Hampton, and is
