the crowd, to follow him for the purpose of rescuing the
prisoner. The attempt proved unsuccessful. Burk escaped to a house where
lived a woman named Daly. She fitted him out in woman’s garb and in this
disguise he escaped from Ireland, making his way to America, landing in
Boston. Being without means and desiring to show his gratitude to his
protectress, Burk assumed her name, and ever after he signed himself
John Daly Burk.

Boston in those days was not a very hospitable town for an Irishman to
settle in, but Burk fought against great odds and overcame what seemed
to be insurmountable obstacles. On October 6, 1796, he issued the _Polar
Star and Daily Advertiser_. It was the first daily paper published in
the town. It was printed by Alexander Martin, at the corner of Water
Street and Quaker Lane. Copies of the paper are extant, and are well
worth perusal. It had considerable display advertising. It started out
with a well written address to the public on the advantages of a daily
paper. Speaking of the policy of the paper, the editor said: “It will
have more frequent opportunities of defending the great principles of
American Independence; encouraging the arts and chastising the enemies
of the federal constitution whatever mask they may wear or whatever
denomination they may assume.”

Further along in his address to the people, Burk apologized for calling
the residents of Boston his fellow-citizens, but, he added, he was their
fellow citizen, for the moment a stranger puts his foot on American soil
“his fetters,” to use his own language, “are rent to pieces.”

In concluding his leading editorial, Burk said: “The _Polar Star_, like
a stern and impartial tribune of criticism, shall be open to reasoning
on both sides, but it will hear only reasoning. It will curb the spirit
of faction; silence the clamor of revenge and heal the wounds of the
unfortunate.”

Burk complained of the treatment accorded him by the other Boston papers
of the period. In a paragraph, one day, he called attention to the fact
that none deigned to notice the _Polar Star_, and remarked that if its
promoters had not taken the trouble to register its birth in the temple
of freedom, the world would not have been the wiser.

In another issue, he calls attention to the fact that “a gentleman
possessing the wisdom of a Socrates,” declined to subscribe to his
paper, “because the editor was an _Irishman_.” The italics are Burk’s.

The _Polar Star and Daily Advertiser_ gave each political party an equal
showing in its news columns, but its editor early incurred the enmity of
President Adams. Of the presidential canvass preceding the election of
John Adams, who was the candidate of the Federalists, Editor Burk
observed in his paper:

“We hope the future president will be as good a Republican as
Washington. Never has the venerable patriot been known to utter a
sentiment favorable to royalty. He ought to be a friend to the
revolution of Holland and France; he ought not to be willing to divide
the people by any distinction; Americans should have but one
denomination—the people.”

It would seem that President Adams kept a sharp eye on Burk while in
Boston. It was his intention, says Burk’s son in his memoirs of his
father, to hand the Boston editor over to the captain of a British
frigate lying in Boston harbor. Great Britain at that time was claiming
all her subjects, wherever found. Many an American vessel was searched
for escaped Irish patriots, and on this right of search, the war of 1812
was waged. Had Burk ever been handed over to the British captain, there
is no doubt but that he would have been hanged at the yard arm of the
vessel. As it was, Burk was obliged to flee from Boston, fearing
surrender to the British, leaving his daily paper on the hands of the
printer, who soon afterwards abandoned it and removed to Philadelphia,
then the seat of the Federal government.

It was Aaron Burr who gave Burk the first intimation of President Adams’
intention to turn him over to the British authorities, and in more ways
than one Hamilton’s inveterate political enemy facilitated Burk’s escape
to New York, where he published _The Time-Piece_. Thus, Boston lost a
brilliant man and her first daily paper was reluctantly abandoned after
six months’ existence.

While in Boston, Burk married a widow named Curtis, formerly Christine
Borne. She bore him one son, John Junius Burk, who became a
distinguished jurist of Louisiana. Mrs. Curtis had two boys by her first
marriage. One of them married a sister of President John Tyler. John
Junius Burk left several accomplished children who were justly proud of
John Daly Burk, their grandfather, the pioneer of Boston daily
journalism. After his New York experience Burk took up his residence
among the Republicans of Virginia. Jefferson, Randolph and other
distinguished patriots were proud to have him in their company. He wrote
one of the best histories of Virginia published, and took an active part
in public matters, being in great demand for public speaking.

In the _Richmond Enquirer_ of May 27, 1808, were printed proposals for
publishing the ancient and modern music of Ireland, by John McCreery and
Skelton Jones. Burk wrote a fine essay on the subject for the work. This
book, it is said, suggested to Thomas Moore his Irish melodies. Dr.
Robinson, who wrote the preface to McCreery’s work, was a classmate of
Moore at Trinity College, Dublin. Burk’s ending was dramatic. He was
killed in a duel by a Frenchman in Virginia in 1808. Although Burk was
the publisher of the first daily paper in Boston, the impartial
historians of the Hub dismiss him by a mere mention of his name when
they condescend to refer to his paper at all, but an honored son has
preserved the important facts of his distinguished and interesting
career.

A most interesting character in pioneer journalism in America was Andrew
Brown, an Irishman who published the _Federal Gazette_ in Philadelphia.
He, too, was a graduate of Trinity college. He came to America when a
young man, settled in Massachusetts, and fought on the patriots’ side at
Lexington, Concord and Bunker Hill. He took an active part in the
campaigns of Generals Gates and Greene.

Brown’s paper was the first to publish reports of the doings of
Congress. He upheld the constitution when it was assailed, and earned
the gratitude of men no less distinguished than Washington.

Another of the early Irish-American publishers was John Dunlap of the
_Pennsylvania Packet_, the first daily published in America. He was born
in Strabane, Ireland, in 1747. He died in Philadelphia in November,
1812. He was the first congressional printer, and acted as such to the
Continental Congress. His paper was first to print the Declaration of
Independence. He was an officer in the First Philadelphia cavalry which
acted as Washington’s body-guard at Trenton and Princeton. Dunlap was an
intense patriot, and during the Revolutionary War contributed more than
£4,000 to the support of the Revolutionary army. He was a member of that
noble band, the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, of Philadelphia, which
furnished more field officers to the Revolutionary army and rendered
more material aid to the colonists in the struggle for independence than
any other single society.

Another prominent Philadelphia journalist of Irish birth was Mathew
Carey, a native of Dublin. He landed in Philadelphia November 15, 1784.
He had just been released from an English prison for political offenses.
Two months later he issued the _Philadelphia Herald_. The _Herald_ was
the first paper to give correct legislative reports of Congress, Carey
acting as his own reporter. For his vigorous opposition to English
tyranny in his native land, he found himself one day a prisoner behind
the bars at Newgate. Previous to this he was obliged to flee, for a
vigorous use of his able pen in behalf of Irish freedom. He went to
Paris and there made the acquaintance of the American minister, Benjamin
Franklin, who gave him employment as clerk in the American embassy.
After a year’s absence he returned to Dublin. He and Franklin were
life-long friends, and it was he, I believe, who remarked to Franklin
one day, that he agreed with the great philosopher in everything except
religion.

He remained at his post editing his paper during the yellow fever
epidemic in Philadelphia, when all other editors felt obliged to desert
their posts. He wrote and published much on economic and political
subjects. His articles on protection were translated into different
languages, and had a large sale. He fought a duel with Colonel Oswald,
editor of a rival journal, and was confined to his bed for sixteen
months, the result of wounds received from his antagonist. Mathew Carey
was the first publisher of an American history. It was written by an
Irish Presbyterian, Dr. Ramsay.

Perhaps the most interesting character among the Philadelphia editors of
Irish blood was William Duane. He was the editor of the _Aurora_. Born
in New York of Irish parents, he was sent to Ireland to be educated,
graduating at Trinity College with honors. In 1794 we find him in India
where he started a paper called the _World_ and accumulated quite a
fortune. With his inherent love of freedom, Duane championed the cause
of the colonists against the East India Company. He was invited to
breakfast one day with the governor of the colony, was arrested and sent
to London in irons without any explanation. After petitioning for
redress he awaited the outcome. Meanwhile he was employed editing the
_General Advertiser_, which was subsequently merged into the _London
Times_.

In 1795 Duane gave up his hope of redress from the Company and left
London in disgust, coming to Philadelphia, where he became the editor of
the _Aurora_, the leading organ of the Democratic party. It was to him
that Jefferson attributed his election, owing to the vigorous advocacy
of his candidacy through the _Aurora_ columns which at that time was
regarded as the most influential paper in America. President Jefferson
made him a lieutenant-colonel in 1805, and during the war of 1812 he was
adjutant-general of the army, which afforded the editor of the _Aurora_
an opportunity to retaliate on his old enemy, England. The change of the
seat of government from Philadelphia to Washington, diminished the
influence of his paper, and later he retired from its editorship. He
traveled much after retirement from his editorial labors, and on his
return from abroad devoted himself to literary pursuits. He published a
great many works on military subjects.

His son, who was born in Ireland, was originally a printer and paper
dealer in Philadelphia. He studied law, was admitted to practice and
represented Philadelphia in the state legislature for many years. He,
like his father, took a deep interest in public matters, especially the
building up of the great common school system of Philadelphia. He was
his father’s right hand man in his editorial labors and secretary of the
treasury in 1833 under President Jackson. He was removed from his
position by the president after a controversy, for his refusal to remove
the deposits from the United States bank during the exciting bank
troubles. He was an author of note and wrote much on political and
economic subjects.

The Binns family who settled in Philadelphia at the close of the
eighteenth century were natives of Dublin. John and Benjamin were
printers. John was tried in England for “treason,” but escaped
punishment. Soon after his acquittal he was rearrested on a similar
charge and served three years in jail. He came to America in 1801. In
1802 he commenced the publication of the _Republican Argus_ at
Northumberland, Penn., and in 1807 issued the _Democratic Press_ at
Philadelphia. For many years it was a most influential paper. For twenty
years John Binn was an alderman of the city of Philadelphia, and was
always active in matters affecting his native land. He was the first man
to print an absolutely correct copy of the Declaration of Independence.
For this public service he received the thanks of John Quincy Adams and
General Lafayette. Appended to the copy of the document was a fac simile
of the signatures of the signers of the immortal Declaration.

The proprietor of the _New Jersey State Gazette_ which was established
in 1792, the first daily paper published in that state, was William B.
Kenny, the son of Irish parents. Under President Fillmore he was
American minister to Sardinia.

Dr. James Hagan, the fighting editor of the _Vicksburg_ (Miss.)
_Sentinel_, was one of the earliest daily newspaper men in the South. He
was killed in the prime of life while on his way to his office one day
in 1842, by the editor of the _Vicksburg Whig_, with whom he had had a
controversy. Dr. Hagan’s associate in the enterprise was James Ryan.

In the early life of the nineteenth century we find Henry O’Reilly
editing the _New York Columbian_. At seventeen he was editor of the
_Patriot_, ably advocating, in 1842, the election of DeWitt Clinton, an
Irish immigrant’s son, as governor of the Empire state. In 1826 the
_Rochester Daily Advertiser_ was issued and was the first daily between
the Hudson river and the Pacific Ocean. O’Reilly was then only
twenty-one years old, but was considered one of the ablest men in his
profession at that time. He was a great advocate of the canal system of
New York and was always ready to defend it from the attacks of designing
politicians. He was one of the foremost champions of the great common
school system of his state. To him belongs the credit of the
establishment of the State Agricultural college. Almost every state in
the Union has followed New York’s lead in this matter. As a promoter of
the infant telegraph business, Mr. O’Reilly is acknowledged to have been
the foremost man in the matter, assisting Morse with his pen and money.
No man had more influence than O’Reilly throughout the state, and at the
breaking out of the Rebellion he did yeoman service for the Union cause.
He died in 1867, loved and respected by all.

William Cassidy, the son of Irish parents, was born in Albany, N. Y., in
1815. His father was a great friend of DeWitt Clinton, the governor of
New York. Cassidy was the editor of the _Albany Atlas_ and _Argus_ which
were united in 1856, taking the name of the _Argus_. From that date the
_Albany Argus_ has been one of the leading papers of New York state.
Cassidy was a fine classical scholar, and for many years secretary of
the Democratic state committee. He was a noted platform builder and
often helped his party out of trying positions.

James McCarroll was a noted journalist of his day. He was born in the
county Longford, Ireland, came to this country when a young man, and in
1845 was a proprietor of the _Peterboro Chronicle_. Later in life he was
engaged as a musical and dramatic critic on New York daily papers. His
father fell, fighting bravely for the Union, at Antietam.

Who is there that does not recall Fitz James O’Brien and his heroism on
Union battlefields, that won him the official praise of two great
generals? He lived a newspaper man, a poet, and a writer of preëminent
ability. He died a Union soldier. He gave his life to his adopted
country freely and without price. A record of heroic deeds on the
battlefields survives him. Of him, suffice it to say, that during his
ten years’ residence in America, this adopted citizen brought out some
of the most brilliant writings of their class published. He died in
Virginia, an aide in the staff of General Landers, from the effects of a
wound received in a charge he led, and lies buried in Greenwood
cemetery, New York, in an honored grave.

The mention of poor O’Brien recalls to mind Charles Dawson Shanley,
another Irishman, who died in 1875. For eighteen years Mr. Shanley
occupied a prominent place in American journalism, having been connected
with several New York newspapers as editor and contributor. His poems
and novels still delight the lover of realistic beauty. His old friend,
William Winter, paid this tribute to him in the columns of the _New York
Tribune_, April 19, 1875: “There is no one of the busy workers in
journalism who will not be benefited by reflection upon a character so
pure and simple, a life so industrious, useful and blameless, and an end
so tranquil.”

Col. James Mulligan once edited a Chicago paper. General Thomas Francis
Meagher, of ’48 fame, was editing the _Irish News_ in New York at the
breaking out of the Rebellion of ’61.

Robert S. McKenzie, a native of Limerick, Ireland, a graduate of Fermoy,
was noted for his literary work, and was engaged in general newspaper
correspondence for many years.

One of the most successful journalists of Irish blood was Thomas
Kinsella, editor of the _Brooklyn Eagle_. Mr. Kinsella was born in
Ireland in 1832, learned his trade as a printer and in 1861 was editing
the _Brooklyn Eagle_. He was postmaster at Brooklyn, member of Congress,
one of the original Brooklyn bridge trustees, and at one time president
of the St. Patrick club of Brooklyn.

In Indiana, no two newspaper men of their time were better known than
Thomas and John Dowling in the early part of the nineteenth century.

A son of Judge John D. Phelan of Tennessee, who graduated with high
honor at Nashville University, started a Democratic paper in
Huntersville, conducting it with success. Editor Phelan was a leading
figure in politics and at his death was a judge of the supreme court of
Tennessee.

Michael Burnham was the name of the man, who, when the century was
young, issued the _New York Post_ and _Herald_.

Although the founder of the _New York Herald_, James Gordon Bennett, was
of Scotch birth, his mother was an Irishwoman, being the descendant of
an old and honorable Dublin family. Mr. Bennett studied for the
priesthood in the old country, but soon abandoned the idea, came to
Boston where he read proof for a while, and after a varied experience in
newspaper life settled in New York and in 1835 started the _New York
Herald_.

James Gordon Bennett’s great competitor, Horace Greeley, of the _New
York Tribune_, was a New Hampshire boy, born of Irish parents in the
town of Amherst. No man carried more influence than Greeley, and in the
days of the war and the decade following it the _Tribune_ was a great
power in national politics.

One of the foremost newspaper men of the South was the late United
States Senator Patrick Walsh of Georgia. He was a native of Limerick. He
came to America with his parents when a child. He was a hard worker in
his youth and earned enough money sticking type to pay his way at
Georgetown college. He was at college when his adopted state seceded and
he went home to join the Meagher Guard, an Irish company attached to the
first regiment of South Carolina. He had filled every position on the
paper, and in 1873 became one of the owners of the _Augusta Chronicle_.

Few journalists in America occupy the high position in their profession
that Col. Alexander Kelly McClure, who, with the McLaughlin brothers,
started the _Philadelphia Times_, one of the leading papers in the
country to-day. Mr. McClure comes from the Pennsylvania Irish which has
furnished so many remarkable men in American history. He has been an
important factor in journalism for nearly half a century now and counts
among his nearest friends the leading men of the nation. He was
particularly prominent in the War of the Rebellion and was on the most
intimate terms with President Lincoln.

As a war correspondent Joseph B. McCullagh, late editor of the _St.
Louis Globe-Democrat_, had few equals. He was a native of Dublin, which
he early left, coming to America when a boy. He had a varied and
successful newspaper career. He was in the Wilderness with Grant and
with Sherman on his march to the sea. In his campaign with Grant a
friendship was formed which lasted until the death of the hero of the
Rebellion.

One of the leading newspaper men of Pittsburg to-day is Thomas J.
Keenan, the son of an Irish-American soldier distinguished for his
bravery. Mr. Keenan recently gave a $30,000 home to the newsboys of
Pittsburg.

Thomas Fitzgerald, for many years connected with the New York
_Commercial Advertiser_, and the _Item_, of Philadelphia, which he
founded, was in his day one of the leaders in American journalism. He
died in 1891, after turning his paper over to his son. He was a noted
dramatist, and during the War of the Rebellion was an intense patriot.
He was a noted public speaker. Charles Sumner said of a speech of his
delivered in Boston, that it was one of the best extemporaneous
addresses he had ever listened to.

At the head of the _Scranton_ (Pa.) _Truth_ is James Joseph Jordan, born
of Irish parents, while the Farrells of Albany, N. Y., are also
well-known and influential in the newspaper world.

The late Joseph Medill, of Chicago, the son of Irish parents, made the
_Chicago Tribune_ a great newspaper. He ranked with Charles A. Dana of
the _N. Y. Sun_.

Thomas O’Conor, the father of New York’s greatest jurist, Charles
O’Conor, was among the best known and gifted newspaper men in the early
’40’s.

Theodore O’Hara, the gifted poet of the South, was a newspaper man of
wide experience. Himself a Kentucky soldier, he wrote the beautiful poem
entitled “The Bivouac of the Dead,” when the remains of the Kentucky
soldiers who fell at Buena Vista in the Mexican War were brought home to
their native state. Lines from his poems are inscribed over the
entrances of several of the national cemeteries. By a resolution of the
Kentucky legislature, his remains were conveyed from Georgia, where he
died, to his native state and they now lie beside those whom he had
commemorated in his beautiful lines, and beside whom he had fought the
battles of his country.

Daniel Kane O’Donnell as an all round newspaper man and a war
correspondent, had few equals. He represented the _Philadelphia Press_
on Sherman’s march to the sea. After the war he became connected with
the _New York Tribune_, and was made correspondent of the paper in
Mexico, and later in Cuba, his interesting letters attracting world-wide
attention. Subsequently, he returned to the home office and was given
charge of the foreign affairs of the paper.

At the head of the war correspondents of the Orient and Europe stands
Januarius Aloysius McGahan, an Irish-American journalist. His first
notable newspaper connection was as the Paris correspondent of the _New
York Herald_. McGahan was about to return from Europe after a course in
international law, when he was retained by Mr. Bennett as the _Herald_
correspondent.

He overtook the retreating Frenchmen at Bordeaux and accompanied them to
Lyons, sending graphic dispatches to his paper in the form of interviews
with the leaders of all parties. This surprised the European newspapers,
as it was the introduction of newspaper interviewing in the old world.
He was the only correspondent who remained in Paris during the commune,
and kept the readers of the _Herald_ thoroughly informed as to what was
going on in the turbulent French capital. He was arrested by the French
government for intimacy with the rebels, but through the intercession of
the American minister was released.

After this he was made correspondent at St. Petersburg by the _Herald_,
and was on the most intimate terms with the czar. He was at the
bombardment of Khiva, and in 1874 reported the Carlist war, living in
the saddle and being frequently under fire. To follow McGahan would
require a whole evening. He continued to be the most renowned
correspondent of his day, and died of fever at his post of duty during
the Bulgarian war in 1875.

Another famous _New York Herald_ war correspondent was James O’Kelly,
who made a world-wide reputation in his dispatches from Cuba in the
early ’70’s. Born in Ireland, a French soldier in Mexico, he came to
America and engaged in the newspaper business, becoming an attache of
the _New York Herald_. He was condemned to death for his part in the
Cuban insurrection, but was saved that fate by the state department.
After his release he returned to Ireland, and was elected to parliament
on entering politics.

It was Daniel O’Neil, a native of Wexford, who started the _Pittsburg
Dispatch_, one of the leading papers of the West to-day. His brother,
Eugene O’Neil, is now the editor.

Ex-Mayor Hugh O’Brien, of Boston, scored a signal success as a
journalist.

James McConnell, who died recently, was one of the best known newspaper
men of Philadelphia. He learned to set type at the case adjoining that
of the late John Russell Young. Later, he became proofreader on the
_Philadelphia Press_, then owned by John Forney. He became night editor,
and during the Civil War war correspondent of that paper. When John
Russell Young became managing editor of the _New York Tribune_ under
Horace Greeley, Mr. McConnell came to New York and while with the
_Tribune_ was successively day editor, Albany correspondent, traveling
political correspondent, night editor and political editor in the
office. After serving the _Tribune_ he went to Philadelphia and
associated himself with the _Evening Star_, and at the time of his death
was managing editor of the _Star_.

Add to this already remarkable list, a Grady in the South, a Blaine in
the North. Nothing that I might say regarding these distinguished men of
Irish origin would add to the already large stock of knowledge possessed
by the public concerning them. Their names are household words. They
lived but as yesterday. Their influence is still felt.

In treating a subject of this character one could hardly forget the debt
of gratitude the Irish people in America owe to Patrick Donahoe, the
venerable founder of the _Boston Pilot_, and his brilliant and scholarly
successor as editor of that paper, the lamented John Boyle O’Reilly.
Coming down to the present time, we would not be doing justice to
ourselves did we not pause in admiration of the present gifted editor of
the _Pilot_, James Jeffrey Roche, and also of Stephen O’Meara, the
manager of the _Boston Journal_. Time permits only a passing notice of
these brilliant lights in American journalism. In this hasty review of
the men of Irish blood who have taken such an active part in American
newspaper work, I doubt not that many worthy men have escaped notice. It
is inevitable in such an undertaking. Experience teaches that if one
were to put the works on the Irish in America together, something and
somebody would be missing.

Enough has been shown to establish the fact that Irishmen by birth or
blood may justly claim a large share of putting the American newspaper
on its feet, so to speak. This is not said in any boastful vein. The
only desire is to show that in the building up of this great industry
Irishmen did their share of the work. Effort has been made to keep
within the bounds of actual facts, most of them being obtained from
unwilling witnesses, men who, when they are forced to include in their
chronicles men of our race, endeavor oftentimes to make them out
“Scotch-Irish.”

Men like Burk, Carey, Dunlap, Brown and Duane may have been
“adventurists and refugees.” God grant us more such “adventurists and
refugees,” for they lived useful lives here. They left their imprint on
the land. The historian who would apply the term “adventurists and
refugees” to such men should reflect that, had the American cause
failed, Washington, Adams, Jefferson and many other patriots would have
come within their term of “adventurists and refugees,” and probably
would have been seeking liberty elsewhere, as were these men, far from
the land of their nativity.

These pioneers in American journalism came here,

          “Where no caste barrier stays the poor man’s son,
            Till step by step the topmost height is won;
          Where every hand subscribes to every rule,
            And free as air are voice, and vote, and school.”

“They may sleep in their silent tomb,” to quote the words of Thomas
D’Arcy Magee, another brilliant Irish-American journalist, “but the
remembrance of their virtue will be cherished while liberty is dear to
the American heart.”

A distinguished man, Gen. Patrick A. Collins, once observed that of all
the brilliant Irishmen he ever knew—and he has known many—John Boyle
O’Reilly and D’Arcy Magee could do more things and do them better than
any of their contemporaries.




                IRISH PIONEERS AND BUILDERS OF KENTUCKY.

                      BY HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN.[22]


The number of distinctive Irish names met in looking over the early
records of North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, and Kentucky is
simply wonderful. When are added to them the names more distinctively
Scotch, but fully as Gaelic in origin as the Irish, one is justified in
believing what Ramsay wrote in 1789, that:

“The colonies which now form the United States may be considered as
Europe transplanted. Ireland, England, Scotland, France, Germany,
Holland, Switzerland, Sweden, Poland, and Italy furnished the original
stock of the present population and have been supposed to contribute to
it in the order enumerated. For the last seventy or eighty years no
nation has contributed so much to the population of America as
Ireland.”[23]

Dr. Hart and William Coomes were the first Catholic settlers in
Kentucky, locating in Harrodsburgh in 1775. The doctor was the first
medical practitioner in the state, as Mrs. Coomes was the first teacher.
This credit is given them in Collins’ History of Kentucky. Among the
fortified stations or forts built for protection from the Indians by the
early settlers, not a few bore names familiar to Irish ears, denoting
the presence of many of the old race.

Among them may be mentioned Bryan’s Station, Dougherty’s Station,
Drennan’s Lick, Feagan’s Station, Finn’s Station, Fleming’s Station,
Hart’s Station, Higgins’ Block House, Irish Station, Lynch’s Station,
Logan’s Fort, McAfee’s Station, McFadden’s Station, McGee’s Station,
Sullivan’s Old Station, Sullivan’s New Station, Sullivan’s Station,
Daniel Sullivan’s Station, McGuire’s Station, McCormack’s Station,
McKeenan’s Station, McConnell’s Station, Kennedy’s Station, Givin’s
Station, McKinley’s Station, McMillan’s Station, Owen’s Station, Kilgore
Station, Hoy Station, Kinchelloe’s Station and Gilmore’s Station.

Ten Kentucky counties bear Irish names: Adair, Butler, Logan, Hart,
Montgomery, McCracken, Boyle, Carroll, Rowan, and Casey. John Carty, the
most successful merchant in Lexington, was the son of John Carty, a
native of Ireland who went early to Kentucky from New Jersey; and
General James Morrison, for many years one of the leading men of the
state, was the son of another Irish emigrant.

As late as 1840, among the surviving veterans of the Revolutionary War
residing in Kentucky were the following:

 James McElroy,
 Andrew Linam,
 James McElhaney,
 Michael Moore,
 William Brady,
 George Bryan,
 Edward McConnell,
 Michael Smith,
 Michael Freeman,
 John Hart,
 Joseph Dunn,
 William De Courcey,
 David Driscoll,
 John Short,
 John Dehan,
 Richard Wade,
 Randall Haley,
 Cornelius Sullivan,
 Hugh Drennon,
 Patrick McCann,
 E. Madden,
 John Burke,
 David Kennedy,
 Timothy Logan,
 John Slavin,
 James Logan,
 John Martin,
 John Herron,
 Patrick Marvin,
 Michael Hargan,
 Daniel Bryan,
 John Carroll,
 John McGee,
 John Murphy,
 Joseph Casey,
 Richard Bellew,
 John Keen,
 Stephen Collins,
 William Lyons,
 Jacob Dooly,
 William Kelly,
 Charles Hart,
 William Conner,
 Daniel McCarthy,
 James Fitzpatrick,
 Robert Burke,
 John Reilly,
 John Mahon,
 Martin Hughes,
 Joseph Sweeney,
 Thomas Laughlan,
 John Adair,
 Patrick Coyle,
 Dennis Dailey,
 John McQuilty,
 William Devine,
 John Mitchel,
 Gen. Richard Butler,
 Maj. John Finley,
 Col. James Morrison.

The following served in the several companies named, during the
Revolution, on detached service, mainly against the Indians, who were
the auxiliaries of the British:

In Captain Bourman’s company,—William Barry, Edward Bulger, Patrick
Doran, Isaac McBride, Robert McClanahan, Edward Murray, Joseph Michael
and Thomas Pendergast.

Captain Logan’s company,—Capt. Benj. Logan, Lieut. John Logan, William
Casey, George Flynn, Bartholomew Fenton, Stephen Houston, John
McCormack, John McElhone, James McElwain, John McKaine, Archibald
Mahone, William Neal.

Captain Harrod’s company,—Daniel Driskill, John Conway, Patrick McGee,
John Lewis, William Smiley, James Sullivan, James Welch.

Captain Boyle’s company,—Capt. John Boyle, Barney Boyle, Elisha Clary,
James Coyle, Owen Devine, Peter Higgins, Robert Moore, William Rowan,
Dennis Devine.

Captain Holder’s company,—James Barry, James Bryan, John Butler, William
Collins, William McGee, Hugh Ross.

Captain Boone’s company,—John Butler, Patrick Ryan, Morgan Hughes, John
McFadden.

An idea can be formed of the Irish blood in Kentucky during those
stirring times, from the character of the names given. Nearly all the
great Gaelic family names are represented, and the absence of Scriptural
(Old Testament) names, so common among those of the Presbyterian and
Congregational denominations, indicates that these men were of Catholic
stock when they, or their fathers, immigrated. The first settlers of the
“Blue Grass” state were from Virginia, North Carolina and
Pennsylvania,—nearly all of this stock, which no doubt accounts for the
gallantry and beauty of the modern Kentuckians, men and women, and the
superior quality of the whiskey and horses, for the usquebaugh, or
“mountain dew,” was first distilled in Ireland, and when first tasted by
the sluggish Saxons, the effect was such on their thick blood, muddied
by beer, that they considered it good not only as a beverage, but as
“cure-all” for medicinal purposes.

James McBride, an Irishman, has the credit of being the first white man
to enter the territory, “paddling his canoe up the Kentucky river in
1745.” Twenty years later Col. George Croghan, the well-known Indian
agent of the same stock, was at Shawane town, on the Ohio river.

When Daniel Boone left North Carolina for Kentucky in 1769, he was
accompanied by James Mooney, John Stewart, Joseph Holden, John Findlay
and William Cool, all but the leader being of Irish stock.

In 1775, James, George and Robert McAfee, and James McCowen went to the
territory on a surveying tour. In 1778 Capt. James Grattan, John Tuel
and John McManus were among those who laid the permanent foundation of
the city of Louisville. Bryan’s station was one of the earliest
garrisons for protection against the Indians, and two of the prominent
Indian fighters were Captains Orr and Shannon.

Captain Flynn was one of the founders of the town of Columbia, 1787, and
Dr. John Connelly was agent in 1778 for the British government in the
territory. The first newspaper established northwest of the Ohio, in
Cincinnati, was by William Maxwell, of the same stock.

Col. John Lutteral, an Irishman, was one of a party which left North
Carolina for Boonesboro’, Ky., in April, 1775. He was one of the
pioneers and a noted man for years. He was accompanied by John Hart and
John Kennedy. Daniel Boone was the leader. Captain Flynn, who has been
mentioned as one of the founders of Columbia, had as associates Francis
Dunleavy and John Riley.

Among the first settlers of Harrodsburgh were the families of McGarry
and Hogan, welcome acquisitions on account of their wives and children.
Major McGarry was one of the bravest, as well as one of the best known,
Indian fighters in Kentucky, having for an associate a brother Celt
named Major McBride, and another named Captain Bulger. The recital of
their deeds would alone fill a good-sized volume.

In an attack on Bryan’s station, a garrison named after another Celt, by
a party of 500 Indians, in 1782, the savages were repulsed, but some of
the women were killed. This enraged the whites in the vicinity, and a
party of 160 met at the station to arrange for the pursuit and
punishment of the Indians. The cooler heads, led by Daniel Boone, tried
to dissuade the hotheads from making the attempt, but in the midst of
the discussion the impetuous McGarry, putting spurs to his horse, cried
out for all but the cowards to follow him, and galloped in the direction
taken by the savage foe. Every man of the 160, nettled by the taunt,
followed him, but the result which was predicted, followed. They fell
into an ambuscade and sixty of the number were killed, among them
McBride and Bulger. McGarry fought like a madman and escaped unhurt.

Among the first Presbyterian ministers in the state were James McCready,
William McGill, Samuel McAdoo, Henry Delaney, A. M. Bryan, William
McGee, William McMahon and John Dunleavy; and among the first Methodist
ministers were James O’Cull, William Burke, William McMahon and John and
William McGee, all Irish enough in appearance to be staunch Catholics of
the old Milesian type, and it is not unlikely their fathers may have
been.

Among those who distinguished themselves in the history of the state as
legislators, soldiers or writers, were Wm. T. Barry, who was chief
justice of the court of appeals in 1825; one of a commission to digest a
plan of schools for common education; lieutenant-governor in 1820;
member of the National House of Representatives in 1810‒’11; and in the
United States Senate in 1814‒’16.

Gen. John Adair held high command in the War of 1812‒’15; received the
thanks of the Kentucky legislature for gallantry at New Orleans; was
governor of Kentucky in 1820; in the National House of Representatives
1814‒’16, and had served in the United States Senate in 1805‒’06. John
Rowan was secretary of state in 1804; Benjamin Logan was presidential
elector in 1793, William Logan in 1809, and Robert Ewing, William
Irvine, William Casey and William Logan in 1813.

The indomitable Matthew Lyon who went from Vermont to Kentucky was again
sent from Kentucky to congress in 1829‒’33‒’35, and his son, Chittenden
Lyon, was there in 1827‒’35. Colonel Chittenden Lyon was a veritable
giant in size, being considerably over six feet in height and weighing
over 350 pounds. The admixture of Irish and Yankee blood in his make-up,
if anything, increased the pugnacious spirit inherited from his father,
who had married one of the Vermont Chittendens; and the stories told of
his prowess as a wrestler and a boxer are countless.

Being at one time a candidate for a public office, when the margin was
close, he was approached by a political opponent, his rival in
fisticuffs as well as in politics, and fully his equal in size and
weight, and challenged to a boxing match, the condition being that the
loser would vote for the winner. This Lyon agreed to, and they went at
it, over 700 pounds of bone and muscle. After a severe contest the
spectators interfered and it was declared a draw, Lyon, however,
receiving his rival’s vote.

Thomas Dougherty was clerk of the House of Representatives in 1815.
Among native Kentuckians who served in Congress from other states were
James B. Foley from Indiana, 1857‒’59; Willis A. Gorman from the same
state, 1849‒’53, and also a major-general in the Civil War; Edward A.
Hannegan from the same state, in 1855‒’57; and Cornelius L. L. Leary
from Maryland.

Among the noted military men of the Irish stock were Generals John
Boyle, Adair, Croghan and Commander Prendergast.

Among Kentucky poets were Dr. John M. Harney, brother to Gen. W. S.
Harney, Theodore O’Hara, Gen. W. O. Butler, W. D. Gallagher, Noble
Butler and William M. Harney. Among legislators and educators, in
addition to those already named, were McNamara, Hogan, Kane O’Hara, “the
great educator” and father of Colonel Theodore, the poet; Judge James
O’Hara, brother to Kane, and Major James O’Hara, son of the Judge. John
McGill, James McGinty, Cassidy, O’Bamon, Kennan and Finley were also
honored names in the “dark and bloody ground.”

Michael Cassidy, born in Ireland and a soldier of the Revolution, went
to Kentucky in 1782. He was small in stature, being barely five feet in
height, but he made up in courage what he lacked in size, and was, in
addition, as tough and wiry as a hickory sapling. He was considered one
of the most noted Indian fighters in his day, and many anecdotes have
been printed about him.

Dr. John M. Harney, mentioned elsewhere, went to Kentucky from Delaware.
He was born in 1789. He was the son of Major Thomas Harney. Major
Benjamin F. Harney was an elder brother. In 1847 he was the senior
surgeon in the United States army. A younger brother was Major-General
W. S. Harney, who distinguished himself in the Florida and Mexican War.
He was prominent for a while at the outbreak of the Civil War, being in
command at St. Louis until relieved by General Fremont.

Dr. John M. Harney married the daughter of another Celt, the celebrated
John Rowan, in his day one of the best known and respected men in
Kentucky. In his latter years Dr. Harney returned to the faith of his
fathers, dying in the Catholic fold at Bardstown, the original seat of
Catholicity in Kentucky, on January 15, 1825. Gen. John Adair, for whom
the county of that name was called, was born in South Carolina in 1757.
He served in the Revolutionary War. He was one of Kentucky’s pioneers
and first citizens. His name denotes his origin.

Daniel Boone, it is said, was a descendant of one of the original
Catholic settlers of Maryland. Let that be as it may, some of the name
are still found in Maryland, who cling to the old faith. His is the
greatest name among the early pioneers of the state. Boyle county was
named for the Hon. John Boyle, for many years chief justice of Kentucky,
who was a native of Virginia. Butler county received its name from
Major-General Richard Butler of Pennsylvania, who fought through the
Revolutionary War and was killed in St. Clair’s disastrous defeat,
November 4, 1791.

Few of the prominent families, not only of Kentucky but of any state in
the Union, have been so distinguished in many ways as this of General
Butler. The emigrant ancestor was Thomas Butler, born in Kilkenny,
Ireland, April 8, 1720. Five of his sons attained eminence in America.
Of these, Richard, William and Thomas were, like their father, natives
of Ireland. Percival and Edward were born in Pennsylvania. All were
officers in the Revolutionary War. Edward was too young at first, but
entered it before its close. Richard was the second in command of
Morgan’s rifle regiment. He was afterwards its colonel and commanded
Wayne’s left in the attack on Stony Point. All these brothers and their
immediate descendants were engaged in the military service of their
country, in all the wars before 1800; while their survivors were in the
war of 1812, and not less than nine of a younger generation were in the
Mexican War.

Gen. Percival Butler migrated to Kentucky in 1784. His son, Col. Thomas
L. Butler, was aide to General Jackson in the battle of New Orleans. A
second son, Gen. Wm. O. Butler, also served in the war of 1812, received
the commendations of General Jackson for bravery at New Orleans, was
afterwards appointed on Jackson’s staff and was a major-general in the
Mexican War. The third son, Richard P. Butler, was assistant
adjutant-general in the campaign of 1812.

Campbell county takes its name from Col. John Campbell, a native of
Ireland. He received a grant of four thousand acres of land, located
near Louisville, and during life was one of Kentucky’s noted men.
Carroll county takes its name from Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.

Casey county derives its name from Col. Thomas Casey, who went from
Virginia to Kentucky in 1779. Daviess county was named in honor of
Joseph H. Daviess, who fell at Tippecanoe. He was born in Virginia, of
an Irish father and a Scotch mother. “The warm heart, free and off-hand,
and ready sentiment told in language plainer than words, that the blood
of Erin flowed fresh in his veins.”

Fleming county was named for Col. John Fleming, who was born in
Virginia. Fulton county was named for Robert Fulton. Hart county derived
its name from Capt. N. G. T. Hart. His father, Col. Thomas Hart, was
from Maryland. Kenton county takes its name from the celebrated Simon
Kenton. “His father was an Irishman, his mother of Scotch descent.” He
was born in Virginia. His name is familiar to every reader of the early
history of Kentucky.

Knox county was named for Gen. Henry Knox of the Revolution. He was born
in Boston of Irish parents, and was a member of “The Irish Society” of
that city. Logan county derives its name from Gen. Benjamin Logan. His
parents came from Ireland. He was born in Pennsylvania. His is one of
Kentucky’s great names. It is claimed that his son, William Logan, was
the first white child born in Kentucky. McCracken county was named for
Capt. Virgil McCracken, who was killed in the war of 1812. Meade county
was named for Capt. James Meade, who was killed in the same engagement
with Captain McCracken. Montgomery county derives its name from Gen.
Richard Montgomery, who was killed at Quebec. Wayne county was named in
honor of Gen. Anthony Wayne, who was born in Pennsylvania. His name
appears on the roll of members of the “Friendly Sons of St. Patrick” of
Philadelphia.

Another noted Kentucky family was that of the O’Haras. Kane O’Hara went
to Kentucky in the latter part of the eighteenth century, and became in
time one of its most distinguished educators. He was accompanied to this
country by his father and two younger brothers. Of the two latter,
Charles went to Georgia, where he followed the same profession; James
remained in Kentucky teaching for some years, but later was admitted to
the bar, and acquired the reputation of a profound lawyer and able
advocate.

He was the father of Judge James O’Hara, Jr. Among the large number of
pupils of Kane O’Hara who became famous after, were several of the
Marshalls and Browns,—Major Croghan of the United States army, and
President Zachary Taylor. When on his way to Washington to be
inaugurated, General Taylor departed from his line of travel in order to
visit his old teacher in Frankfort. “It was an affecting scene when the
great soldier, then an old man, bowed himself in grateful homage before
the venerable preceptor of his youth, and in few but earnest words,
thanked him for the care bestowed on his early education, to which he
attributed all the achievements of his after life.”

Col. Theodore O’Hara, poet, journalist, and soldier, was the son of Kane
O’Hara. He was educated by his father with the greatest care, but
received his collegiate finish, and graduated, at St. Joseph’s College,
Bardstown, with the first honors of his class. His “Bivouac of the Dead”
has made his name immortal:

                “The muffled drum’s sad roll has beat
                The soldier’s last tattoo!
                No more on life’s parade shall meet
                That brave and fallen few;
                On fame’s eternal camping-ground
                Their silent tents are spread,
                And Glory guards with solemn round
                The bivouac of the dead.

                       *       *       *       *       *

                Rest on, embalmed and sainted dead!
                Dear as the blood ye gave;
                No impious footsteps here shall tread
                The herbage of your graves;
                Nor shall your glory be forgot
                While Fame her record keeps,
                Or honor points the hallowed spot
                Where valor proudly sleeps.”

A great and magnanimous government has had these verses, the composition
of an ex-Confederate soldier, cast separately in bronze and set up in
appropriate places in all the National cemeteries.

It is worthy of mention that a lady bearing a now historic name, at
least in song, Mrs. Ann McGinty, brought the first spinning-wheel into
Kentucky, and made the first linen in the territory. She is also
credited with making the first butter there, and with bringing within
its borders the first chickens, ducks and hogs. The first Catholic
priest in Kentucky was Father Whalen, who was in Bardstown in 1787.
There were then fifty Catholic families in the state. The first families
to settle there were those of Daniel Boone, Hugh McGary, Thomas Denton
and Richard Hogan. As has been mentioned, the first practising physician
was Dr. Hart, and the first school teacher was Mrs. Coomes, both
Catholics from Maryland.

Col. Matthew Lyon, mentioned elsewhere, is alluded to as the most
remarkable character among the public men of southwestern Kentucky. He
was born in Wicklow county, Ireland, in 1746. His father, for being
engaged in conspiracy against the English government, was tried,
condemned and executed. To secure his passage, Matthew bound himself to
a sea captain to work for twelve months after his arrival in America.
The captain sold him to a Connecticut farmer for two bulls; he served
his time faithfully and became a free man. His favorite by-word was
forever after “By the bulls that bought me.” It is worthy of record that
Rudyard Kipling has put these words in the mouth of one of his recently
created characters, without, however, giving Matthew proper credit. It
is very evident that Colonel Lyon never forgot his father’s execution,
for he was, up to the day of his death, an inveterate hater of the
English government.

After he gained his freedom, he made his home in Vermont. He founded the
town of Fairhaven in 1783, where he built saw and grist-mills, an iron
foundry, engaged in paper making from basswood, and a variety of other
occupations. He served in the Vermont legislature ten years, and for
some time was assistant judge. He served in congress from his adopted
state. He was one of the first arrested under the alien and sedition
laws, was convicted of a libel on the president, John Adams, fined one
thousand dollars, and served a jail sentence in addition.

While in congress, on the thirty-sixth ballot he decided the protracted
seven days’ voting for president by casting his vote and that of Vermont
for Thomas Jefferson, making him president in preference to Aaron Burr.
Shortly after the beginning of the present century he went to Kentucky
with his family. He served in the legislature of his newly adopted
state, and from it, between 1803 and 1811, was in congress eight years.

Eighteen years after his death congress voted to refund with interest
the amount of the fine inflicted on him in 1798. This was done on July
4, 1840. He had a son of the same name who was the father of Gen. H. B.
Lyon. Col. Chittenden Lyon, Matthew’s oldest son, represented his state
in congress eight years, and was fully as impetuous and honest as his
father. Of Matthew Lyon, Gov. John Reynolds, of Illinois, said, “His
Irish impulses were honest, and always on the side of human freedom. His
leading trait of character was his zeal and enthusiasm, almost a madness
itself in any cause he espoused.” This covered his zeal.

The opinion of the members of the first Continental congress, of the
Irish in Ireland, and in the colonies, is well expressed in an address
issued by that body in 1774. In part it said: “Your parliament had done
us no wrong; you had ever been friendly to the rights of mankind, and we
acknowledge with pleasure and gratitude that your nation has produced
patriots who have nobly distinguished themselves in the cause of
humanity and America. Accept our most grateful acknowledgments for the
friendly disposition you have always shown towards us.”

The record made by the men whose names appear in this paper, is evidence
that they were worthy of the tribute paid in this address. What the
feeling was in Ireland, a little more than a year later, was well
described by Gen. Ethan Allen, who said that the people of Cork when
they found he was in the harbor, a prisoner on one of his majesty’s
vessels, sent him a plentiful supply of money, food, and clothing; that
it aroused the ire of Captain Simonds, his keeper, who put an end to the
contributions, saying that “the damned rebels of America should not be
feasted by the damned rebels of Ireland.”

[Illustration:

  GEN. JOHN SULLIVAN.

  A distinguished soldier of the Revolution; born at Somersworth, N. H.,
    1740; a son of Irish parents; member of the Continental Congress;
    was made a brigadier-general, and participated in the siege of
    Boston; became a major-general; took part in the battles of Long
    Island, Trenton, and Princeton; commanded the American right wing at
    the battle of Brandywine; rendered valiant service at the battle of
    Germantown; repulsed the British at the battle of Rhode Island;
    attorney-general of New Hampshire; president of the Commonwealth;
    appointed U. S. Judge of New Hampshire by Washington; died in 1795.
]




       REV. JAMES CALDWELL, A PATRIOT OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

                 BY JAMES L. O’NEILL, ELIZABETH, N. J.


The territory now occupied by Elizabeth, N. J., was formerly the abode
of savage tribes unknown to fame; whence they came and how long they had
dwelt on these shores are questions that neither authentic history nor
plausible tradition pretends to answer. They have since passed away
without memorial.

It was on Sunday, the 6th day of September, 1609, that the eye of the
stranger from the old world first saw this site. Three days before, a
two-masted schooner called the _Half Moon_, under the command of the
renowned Henry Hudson, cast anchor in Sandy Hook bay. The adventurous
craft was manned by twenty men, Dutch and English, in the service of the
East India Company. Their design was to explore a passage to China and
the Indies by the northwest.

On Sunday, the 6th, John Coleman and four other men were sent out in a
boat to explore the harbor, sailing through the narrows that they found.
The narrow river through which they sailed was the Kills between Bergen
Point and Staten Island and the open sea was Newark bay. The site of the
town that bordered on the bay was, of course, in full view. These five
men are believed to have been the first European discoverers of this
particular spot. Coleman was slain the same day, on his return, by the
treacherous arrow of one of the natives. It is not at all unlikely that
Coleman was an Irishman, as his name bears the Celtic tone, and as there
is nothing to verify it to the contrary.

The most distinguished man of Irish descent who identified himself
completely with this old city was the Rev. James Caldwell, the eighth
pastor of the First Presbyterian church. The Rev. Mr. Caldwell was a
Virginian. His father, John Caldwell, came to this country with four
sisters and his wife and several children, from the County Antrim,
Ireland—what year is unknown to the writer. He settled first at Chestnut
Level, Lancaster county, Pennsylvania.

Soon after, he removed to the new settlements in the southern part of
Virginia and located on Cub creek, a branch of the Staunton river, in
what is now known as Charlotte county. Here in the wilderness, James,
the subject of this sketch, the youngest of seven children, was born in
April, 1734. The place was generally known as the Caldwell Settlement or
Cub Creek. A daughter of one of his brothers, also born here, was the
mother of the Hon. John Caldwell Calhoun of South Carolina, the
well-known senator and leading statesman of the South.

James was prepared for college under Rev. John Todd Caldwell and entered
the College of New Jersey. He came hither when the college was at Newark
and formed the acquaintance, while there, of a young maiden to whom he
was afterwards married. He graduated in September, 1759, and on Sept.
17, 1760, he was ordained. He received a call from the Presbyterian
church of this town in November, 1761, which he accepted. He was duly
installed in March, 1762, with an annual salary of £160. He was at that
time in the twenty-seventh year of his age, a young man of prepossessing
appearance and of more than ordinary promise as a preacher of the
gospel. In the year of 1775 charges were preferred to the Presbytery by
former members of the congregation affecting the orthodoxy of their
pastor, Mr. Caldwell, which, however, were found to be of trivial import
and not affecting at all his soundness in the faith. Whatever uneasiness
may have grown out of this matter, it was speedily forgotten in the rush
of events that preceded and precipitated the War of the Revolution.

On the question then at issue Mr. Caldwell’s position was a matter of
public knowledge. He waited not to learn how the struggle was likely to
terminate; his ardent temperament was for his country, for liberty, for
independence. In all his prayers, often in his sermons and exhortations,
and in all his pastoral intercourse, no religious society in the land
took a bolder move or stand, and few were more efficient for their
country’s cause than Reverend Caldwell and his congregation. And not a
little of this patriotism was owing to the fervent zeal of their pastor.
Among his congregation at the commencement of the Revolution were such
men as William Livingston, governor of the state; Elias Boudinot,
afterwards president of the Continental Congress; Abraham Clark, one of
the signers of the Declaration of Independence; Hon. Robert Ogden,
speaker of the assembly at an earlier day, with his three sons, Robert,
Matthias and Aaron (the two last distinguished officers in the United
States army); Hon. Stephen Crane, speaker of the assembly; Elias Dayton
and his son Jonathan, both of them subsequently general officers of the
army and the latter, speaker of congress. From this one congregation
went forth about forty commissioned officers and privates to fight the
battles for independence.

Among the men belonging to the militia of Elizabeth who enlisted on
board of the different sloops as volunteers, in order to take the ship
_Blue Mountain Valley_, January 22, 1776, under the command of Colonel
Dayton, are to be found the following good old Irish names: Sergeant
Thomas Quigley, Thomas McCarty, Timothy B. Stout, James Clancey, Timothy
Burns, Moses Connell and William Higgins.

Among the commissioned officers of Reverend Caldwell’s congregation in
the army are found a Capt. David Lyons, and Capt. Matthias Lyons, Irish
or of Irish descent, without a doubt.

In April, 1776, Colonel Dayton’s regiment, that had been quartered in
the town during the preceding winter, received orders to march to the
relief of the Northern army then besieging Quebec. As most of the
officers and many of the privates were members of Reverend Caldwell’s
congregation, an ardent desire was expressed for his services as their
chaplain.

Lieutenant Elmer in his diary, April 28, says: “Members of the
Presbyterian meeting set about Reverend Caldwell’s going to Quebec with
us, which was agreed upon after some debate. Drank tea at Colonel
Dayton’s, then went to Major Spencer’s to lodge.” So it was determined
that Reverend Caldwell, whose consent was readily obtained, should
accompany his townsmen on their Northern expedition.

The troops left the town the following day, but Colonel Dayton and
Reverend Caldwell did not join them until Saturday, May 11, at Albany,
N. Y. The Jersey Brigade to which the regiment was attached was
stationed the most of the season in the Mohawk valley. On the 16th of
June Reverend Caldwell was at Johnstown and at German Flats in July,
preaching twice every Sunday and taking an active part in military
operations.

In July, as already related, the British troops had taken possession of
Staten Island. The people of the town became greatly alarmed for their
personal safety, and their relatives in the Northern army became
exceedingly anxious for their friends at home.

Reverend Caldwell returned to his family and people early in the autumn,
where his services were pressingly needed. On the retreat of the
American, and the advance of the British, army the last week of
November, 1776, Reverend Caldwell took his family up into the mountains
and found a home for them in the town of New Providence. From this time
forward Reverend Caldwell was occupied more or less continually in the
service of his country to the close of his life.

The enemy having vacated the town at the end of the first week in
January, he returned to his charge and resumed his ministrations,
mingling the duties of the pastor and the soldier together. At various
times through the long years of the war, during which his congregation
were greatly scattered and their means of subsistence for the most part
considerably diminished, Reverend Caldwell served not only as chaplain
of the Jersey Brigade but as assistant commissary-general from the first
of April, 1777, to April, 1779. Instead of a regular salary, he received
for his pastoral service only what was contributed by the congregation
on Sunday.

His church was burned down on the night of Tuesday, January 25, 1780,
and the services of the congregation were thenceforth held in Colonel
Hatfield’s red storehouse. It is probably while preaching here, or it
may have been at an earlier date, that Reverend Caldwell (as related by
Reverend McDowell) preached with his pistols lying on each side of him
in the pulpit, and the sentinels had to keep watch during time of
service.

The Sunday found him, whether at home or in camp, ready to proclaim the
gospel with its message of mercy and comfort to his fellow men, while he
was ever watchful at other times to improve every opportunity to promote
the spiritual welfare of citizens and soldiers. He was held, therefore,
in the highest esteem by officers and men, confided in by all, and
regarded with enthusiastic love by the rank and file. No one,
consequently, save his parishioner, Governor Livingston, was more feared
and hated by the Tories and the British. Gladly would they have
kidnapped him if they could.

At the fall ejection of 1780 he was chosen by his fellow-citizens a
member of the State Council. He continued in the discharge of his
various duties to which he was called until the autumn of 1781. The last
record made of him by the Presbytery was at their meeting, May 7, 1782.
It is in these words: “The Rev. James Caldwell departed this life,
falling by the hands of a cruel murderer on the twenty-fourth day of
Nov., 1781.” The circumstances attending this mournful event were very
fully announced in the public prints at the time. Rivington of New York,
in his _Gazette_ (a Tory journal of that time), said: “The Rev. Caldwell
was shot dead without any provocation at the Point (now Elizabethport)
by a native of Ireland named Morgan.” Note the sting this allegation
placed to an Irish name.

The _New Jersey Journal_ and the _New Jersey Gazette_ devoted much space
to the murder at the time, but they never mentioned the murderer’s name
nor claimed him to have been Irish. These are the only accounts written
and published at the time. As that of the _New Jersey Gazette_ is the
most particular and was written after sufficient time had been allowed
to obtain by means of the coroner’s inquest, and from other sources, the
exact state of the case, it is apparently the most to be relied upon. It
was generally affirmed at the time that the murderer, as intimated in
the _New Jersey Journal_, was bribed by the British enemy to do the
dreadful deed. And it is not strange that it should have been believed,
as it was known that the British had offered a reward for the
apprehension or assassination of Governor Livingston, and as no other
reason could be assigned for the murder.

The body of Rev. Mr. Caldwell was carried to the public house at the
Point, now Red Jacket Hotel. A homely ambulance was obtained and the
body was slowly brought to town. A crowd of people, greatly excited,
gathered by the way. The mournful cortege, tradition says, passed
through Water street, now Elizabeth avenue, to Broad street; then to
Jersey street; and then to the residence of Mrs. Noll. The day
following, when the people gathered for public worship, the place where
they met might well have been named “Bochim, the Weeping Place.” The
people were crushed under the sad calamity.

The funeral service was held on Tuesday, the 27th, the whole town
suspending all business and gathering in uncontrollable grief at the
house of Mrs. Noll. An opportunity was given to the people to view the
corpse in front of the house in the open street. After all had taken
their last look and before the coffin was closed, Dr. Boudinot came
forward leading nine orphan children, and placing them around the bier
of the parent, made an address of surpassing pathos to the multitude in
their behalf. It was an hour of deep sorrow. The procession then slowly
moved to the grave and laid his body by his wife’s remains. Over his
body was placed a marble slab with the following inscription:

“Sacred to the memory of Rev. James Caldwell and Hannah, his wife, who
fell victims to their country’s cause in the year 1781. He was a zealous
and faithful pastor of the Presbyterian church in this town, where, by
his evangelical labors in the gospel vineyard and his early attachment
to the civil liberty of his country, he has left in the hearts of his
people a better monument than brass or marble. Here also lies the
remains of a woman who exhibited to the world a bright constellation of
female virtues. On that memorable day never to be forgotten, when a
British foe invaded this fair village and fired even the Temple of the
Deity, this peaceful daughter of heaven retired to her hallowed
apartment, imploring heaven for the pardon of the enemy,—in that sacred
moment she was by the bloody hand of a British ruffian despatched, like
her divine Redeemer, through a path of blood to her long wished for
native skies.”




THE IRISH IN SOUTH CAROLINA, GEORGIA, ALABAMA, LOUISIANA AND TENNESSEE.

                BY HON. PATRICK WALSH,[24] AUGUSTA, GA.


The time has come when the history of the Irish people in America should
be written. It will be a grand heritage for the Irish-Americans. It will
show how many of their race fought and bled for liberty. This history
will be a priceless gift for future generations. It will be a lasting
memorial of the noble and patriotic work of the element.

It will show how nobly the men of Irish birth and lineage have
illustrated old Ireland under the benign influences of free institutions
and popular government, where liberty is regulated by law, where justice
balances the scales between man and man without regard to race or creed,
giving to every citizen equal advantages and equal opportunities in the
race of life.

A people who have done so much for the honor and glory of this great
republic should feel a just pride in publishing to the world the part
they have taken in the progress of the United States. While there should
be, in the ordinary affairs of life and of government, no discrimination
on account of race or creed, as between citizens of our common country,
each nationality that has borne a prominent part in its history should
seek to perpetuate the record of its people.

In the war between the states Americans of Irish birth or descent stood
for the right as they saw it, and fought for their principles and their
convictions with a patriotic fortitude and heroic valor never surpassed
in ancient or modern times. From the shot at Sumter that was heard
around the world until the Confederate banner was furled forever in
imperishable glory at Appomattox, the Irish and the Irish-Americans of
the North and of the South participated in and confronted each other in
battle array. They fought in the mightiest contest of all the ages, for
their principles and for their altars and their firesides.

I cannot undertake to give in detail the history of the Irish and the
Irish-Americans in South Carolina. It would fill a volume. The Irish
immigration into South Carolina began long since. Of South Carolina
history, they embrace a large part. I find the following in a reprint of
the _Maryland Journal_ of August 20, 1773, for which I am indebted to
Gen. Felix Agnus, proprietor of the _Baltimore American_, which is the
successor of the former:

                                         “PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 11, 1773.

  “Since our last, arrived here the ship Alexander, Captain Hunter,
  with five hundred passengers, and the ship Hannah, Captain Mitchel,
  with five hundred and fifty, both from Londonderry.

  “The ship Walworth, Captain McCausland, sailed from Londonderry for
  South Carolina, about the first of June, with three hundred
  passengers and servants, who were obliged to leave their native
  country, not for their misbehavior, but on account of the great
  distress among the middle and lower class of people.”

Hon. M. P. O’Connor, upon assuming the presidency of the Hibernian
Society of Charleston many years ago, delivered an address in which he
stated that the Hibernian Society of Charleston, S. C., was organized in
1799. “Its first president was the serene and scholarly Rev. Father
Gallagher, who was worthily followed by O’Brien Smith, Simon Magwood,
Samuel Patterson, William A. Caldwell, Thomas Stephens, Henry W. Conner,
the father of Gen. James Conner; James E. Robinson, William Gilliland,
Judge Burke, Governor A. G. Magrath, Bernard O’Neill and M. P. O’Connor.
These men give dignity and character and purpose to the organization.

“Its founders were Thomas A. Malcolm, Edward Courtenay, William and
James Hunter, Joseph Crombie, John S. Adams and a few others. They
professed as the primary object of their union, aid and relief to the
distressed emigrant. But there was latent in their bosoms an object
beyond and higher. It was to preserve the traditions of their
downtrodden race; to embody and cluster around a common centre, in a
genial and hospitable clime, the virtues of their ancestors, and to
reflect in all their splendor under the bright blaze of a Carolina sun
the united rays of true Irish manhood and Irish intelligence.... At the
base of our organization is one grand permeating idea, to give character
and worth and potency to the Irishman in America. It was this society
which built the first Irish-American hall in the United States.”

The gallant and distinguished Gen. M. C. Butler, in response to
inquiries about his family, writes from his home at Edgefield, S. C.:

“I have been absent from home for a fortnight, and did not receive your
letter in regard to the Irish-Americans in our late war from this state
in time to aid you.

“I have a typewritten copy of the family history of the Butlers of my
family, and would send that to you, but it is the only copy, and
therefore do not like to risk it, as it is doubtless too late for your
purpose. The Pierce Butler to whom you refer was of the same stock as my
great-grandfather, James Butler, who came here from Prince Williams
county, Virginia, sometime before the Revolution.

“Another branch moved to Kentucky, to which Gen. Wm. O. Butler belonged
and also Col. E. G. W. Butler of Louisiana. They have always been a
‘fighting’ people—the cropping out of their Irish blood—and have taken a
hand in all the wars of our past history.

“I think the most distinguished and conspicuous military man of my
immediate family was my uncle, Col. Pierce M. Butler, who was killed at
the head of the Palmetto Regiment on the 20th of August, 1847, at
Churubusco, in Mexico. I have always understood he was held in the
highest estimation by General Scott, and other general officers of rank
in the United States army.

“I should think Armstrong, that witty, devil-may-care gallant Irishman
of Charleston, could give you valuable information of the part the
Irish-Americans of this state bore in the Confederate armies. He is
himself a conspicuous example of their gallantry and patriotism.”

I publish the following extracts from letters of Col. James Armstrong,
of Charleston, S. C., just mentioned, than whom there was no more
gallant soldier in the army of Northern Virginia:

“Gen. John Rutledge, of Revolutionary fame, was of Irish descent. So
were the Mannings, three of whom served as governors of the state. Judge
J. Belton O’Neill, Judges Johnstone and Caldwell, James L. Pettigrew,
George McDuffie, Governor Patrick Noble, Gen. John Barnwell, who
defeated the Tuscarora Indians, were of the same race. The Rhetts are
descendants of the renowned ‘Irish Rebel,’ Roger Moore. Judge A. E.
Burke, who fought in 1776, and was afterward judge in South Carolina,
was an Irishman.

“The most prominent South Carolina Irishman in the war of 1812 was, as
you know, Andrew Jackson. In the Mexican war Col. Pierce Butler, who was
killed in command of the famous Palmetto Regiment, was of Irish
extraction. This regiment was in Shields’ Brigade. Patrick Leonard was
color-bearer. Many other Irishmen were in the regiment.

“Charleston had several Irish companies in the Confederate army. Nearly
every company had Irishmen. The flags of the first fourteen regiments,
McGowan’s Brigade, were the first Confederate colors to enter the town
of Gettysburg. The Irish Volunteers was the color company of the First
Regiment and the flag was borne into the town by the captain of the
company, the color-bearer having been shot.

“Capt. John Mitchell, son of the Irish patriot, was in command of Fort
Sumter. He had developed superb courage on the ramparts and was struck
by a shell.

“There were two regiments of South Carolina regulars; about half of the
men were Irish. The middle and up-country regiments contained hundreds
of the descendants of our race.

“Generals Wade Hampton and M. E. Butler have Irish blood. Gen. James
Connor and Gen. Samuel McGowan were of Irish descent. Also Col. Edward
McCrady and Capt. W. H. Ryan and Capt. A. A. Allemong, Capts. M. P.
Parker, James Mulvaney, John C. Mitchell and Sergeant Dominick Spellman,
who was another Sergeant Jasper, were born in Ireland.”

After the rebellion of ’98, in Ireland, a number of Irishmen emigrated
to Georgia. Several families settled in Augusta. The Irish and their
descendants are to be found in all the Southern cities on the coast, and
in the interior from Washington to Galveston.

There were two distinguished lawyers and jurists of Irish birth in
Georgia—Judge John Erskine and Judge O. A. Lochrane. Judge Lochrane was
a wonderfully gifted man. He had great personal magnetism and unusual
powers of brilliant eloquence. He had a handsome person, a noble head
and a pleasing countenance. He had a wonderful memory, the imagination
of a poet and all the graces of oratory. He was called the Irish orator.
With brilliancy and depth and familiarity with the principles of law, he
coped successfully with the ablest lawyers before the highest tribunals.
As chief justice he made a fine reputation. As lawyer, judge and
business man his career was eminently successful. It is with laudable
pride I speak of him as a Georgian and an Irishman.

Judge Erskine was appointed judge of the United States court in Georgia,
in 1865, by President Andrew Johnson. Of him it might well be said his
wisdom enabled him to temper his justice with moderation. Honest
integrity and an inflexible regard for rectitude, and the recognition of
his sterling worth, made him honored even by those who opposed him
politically, and won for him the love and respect of his friends. It may
truly be said, “He never forsook a friend, nor forgot a favor.” After
nearly twenty years of service he retired from the bench in 1883, with
the universal esteem of his associates at the bar. He deservedly
attained a place among the honored roll of Georgia’s worthiest sons.

There was the brilliant and lamented Henry W. Grady, journalist, orator
and patriot, whose grandfather was named O’Grady and whose father died
on the field of battle at the head of his company, fighting for the
Confederacy. The South had no more gifted son. He was proud of his Irish
blood. His untimely death was a public bereavement. His genius and his
talents have won for him a lasting fame.

The Hon. Alexander H. Stephens and the Hon. Joseph E. Brown were two of
the most distinguished sons of Georgia. Mr. Stephens had Irish blood in
his veins and Governor Brown’s ancestors emigrated from the north of
Ireland to South Carolina. These were two of the wisest and greatest of
Georgians. They were proud of their Irish blood and were the life-long
friends of Ireland and the Irish people. They fought intolerance and
proscription and stood boldly for the great principles of civil and
religious liberty.

Irish names are common in the Southern states. In many instances the
people who have them are removed several generations from the
immigrants, thus showing that the Irish immigrant pushed his way into
the South in the early settlement of the country.

A host of Irish-Americans in Georgia during the war were true to the
Confederacy, and fought for its independence. Augusta sent the Irish
Volunteers into the field under Captain Harvey Hull, who was succeeded
by Captain T. G. Barrett. The last captain was M. J. O’Connor. This
company had 100 volunteers. The men fought gallantly in the Army of
Tennessee until the close of the war. Capt. Matt. Rice, a native of
Ireland, commanded the Confederate Light Guards, in the Army of Northern
Virginia. He left a leg at Gettysburg. There were twenty-five Irishmen
in this company. The other companies from Augusta contained Irishmen.
They were in the Clinch Rifles, the Oglethorpes and the Hussars.

There are numbers of Irishmen in Augusta who illustrated Irish valor and
patriotism in the Confederate army. I regret that I have not the space
to mention in detail the names of the Irishmen of Augusta who served the
South during the war.

Hon. A. D. Candler, secretary of state, is proud of his Irish descent.
He writes:

  “Col. Robert McMillan, of the Twenty-fourth Georgia Infantry, went
  from Habersham county and was a gallant officer. He was born in
  Ireland, as was his brother, a gallant private in a company
  commanded by my father, who was himself of Irish lineage.

  “Col. McMillan’s son, Garnett, was born in Elbert county, Georgia,
  but was of pure Irish blood. He was major of his father’s regiment
  and a splendid soldier. He was elected to congress in 1872, but died
  before he took his seat.

  “I am of Irish extraction on both sides, I am proud to say. I I was
  first a private, then a lieutenant and then a captain, and finally a
  colonel in the Confederate army.

  “Captain and afterward Lieutenant-Colonel Neal, of this city, was an
  Irish-American and a good officer, who died in battle. He was a
  brother-in-law of Capt. John Keely, a gallant officer whom you knew.
  At this moment I recall no other officers who were of Irish blood.

  “There were others who were privates in the ranks, and every one
  without exception was a good soldier. Indeed, I have a thousand
  times thought of, and with pride endorsed, the language of the King
  of Poland, who said of the Irish that ‘there is nowhere on the face
  of the earth a people among whom there are so few fools and
  cowards.’”

Captain John Flannery, a native of Ireland, who commanded the Irish
Jasper Greens in the Civil War, writes:

  “Savannah furnished to the Georgia regiment for the Mexican War one
  company of volunteers, something over ninety men, a very large
  majority of them natural-born Irishmen. That company was the Irish
  Jasper Greens, under Captain Henry R. Jackson, who, on being
  promoted, was succeeded by Captain John McMahon, a native-born
  Irishman.

  “In the late war I estimate that Savannah furnished about 1,000 men
  of Irish birth to the armies of the Confederate states. Nearly three
  fourths of these served in distinctively Irish companies, of which
  there were seven. As to their services in the field, that would be
  too long a story, even if I had the data, to write in a letter. The
  Irish element held up their end of the line in every duty that
  devolved upon them on the march, in the battlefield, or elsewhere,
  during the four years of the great struggle.”

Gen. John B. Gordon writes:

  “I had on my staff Major Mitchell, a son of the Irish patriot John
  Mitchell, and who was one of the most gallant soldiers in the
  Confederate army. He had in him the patriotic fire, the ardent love
  of liberty and the devotion to principle which characterized his
  distinguished father. He was desperately wounded in battle, but
  recovered and served to the close. He was always at the post of duty
  and in every particular an ideal soldier.”

Mr. P. J. Moran of Atlanta says:

  “In answer to your question concerning the action of the Irish in
  Atlanta during the war, I have obtained the following facts: The
  priest here at the time was Rev. Father Hassan, a born Irishman. Of
  course he took no immediate part in politics. When the agitation
  came up leading to secession, the Irishmen of Atlanta were almost a
  unit against it, but, after the ordinance was passed, they accepted
  the command of the state. Immediately upon the passage of the
  ordinance the native Georgians appeared on the streets wearing
  cockades; and the _Intelligencer_ appeared next morning with the
  inquiry: ‘What’s the Matter With the Irish That They are not Wearing
  Cockades?’

  “The answer came during the day: ‘We fight; but do not flaunt
  ribbons.’

  “And before the day was over the Jackson Guards, composed of
  eighty-five Irishmen, was organized, made up from the clerks of the
  stores of John Ryan, Meyers and Hayden. They elected as captain,
  William O’Halloran, one of the bravest soldiers that ever lived. His
  deafness interfered with his service, however, and James H. Neal,
  brother of Capt. T. B. Neal, now of Atlanta, was elected to the
  captaincy, with Dennis S. Meyers, John Keely, Peter Fenelon and John
  McGhee as lieutenants. This company went through the war hardly ever
  missing a battle, and when hostilities were concluded, the remnant
  came back home—eleven men out of the eighty-five, who had gone to
  the front. In thus directing the action of the Irish people of
  Atlanta, Father Hassan was prominent. The policy was to be true to
  the Union while it lasted; but when the state spoke—it then became
  their duty to do what they could.”

Gen. Clement A. Evans, one of the best and bravest officers of the
Confederate army, sends the following:

  “It is a pleasure I have in answering your letter to say that I am
  proud of my Irish blood and wish that it may flow on forever. You
  are to take part in an interesting occasion at Nashville designed to
  bring before our American people the value of the generous, brave,
  honorable Irishmen. Your familiarity with our American history will
  serve you well; much of it was made by Irish valor.

  “In our Confederate war the Irish were on both sides, winning
  distinction in both armies—and it is not at all strange that the two
  Irish sides were both right. No other people on earth except the
  Irish can espouse opposite sides and both be right. A brave and true
  Confederate Irishman was captured near Manassas Junction by a
  scouting party of soldiers. He chanced to be dressed in no uniform
  and betrayed by no sign that he belonged to any particular side of
  the pending military issue.

  “The captors demanded of him, ‘Where do you belong? What’s your
  command?’ ‘By me faith,’ said Mike, ‘it’s an ugly question ye are
  asking and I’d be after asking ye by your leave the same thing.’
  ‘Well,’ said the scouts, ‘we are Lincoln’s men.’ ‘All right,’ said
  Mike very warmly, ‘I took ye for gentlemen, an I’m the same.’ But
  the scouts thinking they had caught him, seized him and said, ‘You
  are our prisoner. We belong to Lee’s army.’ ‘Thin ye told me a lie,
  just now, boys, as I thought ye would, and I told ye one meself. Now
  tell me the truth, and I’ll tell ye the truth.’ ‘Well, then, we
  belong to the state of South Carolina.’ ‘So do I,’ quickly and with
  enthusiasm, ‘and I belong to all the other states of the country,
  too; and I bate the whole of you in that one thing. Do you think I
  would come all the way from Ireland to belong to one state when I
  have the right to belong to the whole of them?’ Mike’s Unionism was
  broader than that of nearly all the statesmen of that period.

  “In the beginning of the war the Irish boys who were scattered over
  the South fell in with the companies as they were formed.... One
  company went from my native county, Stewart, electing for its
  captain a young Irishman, Captain Mike Lynch, who made a reputation
  in the 21st Georgia regiment of Dole’s Brigade for skilful courage
  and kindness known throughout the command. Captain Lynch was
  full-blooded Irish, with all the mellow accent of the Emerald Isle.
  I do not think a braver, truer man fought in any army.

  “Captain James Mitchell, son of the Irish exile, served with me
  directly on my staff. He was a brilliant young gentleman, graceful
  in bearing, handsome and of unsurpassed courage. His battle record
  is as good as that of our bravest men. His brother (I think) served
  in Charleston as captain at Fort Sumter. His father was a very
  ardent supporter of secession. Capt. James Mitchell expressed to me,
  at the battle of Fredericksburg, his deep regret that Confederate
  Irishmen were confronted by Meagher’s brave command.

  “There were a considerable number of Irish troops in Louisiana
  regiments. Some of them were under me while I commanded a division
  composed of Georgia, Virginia and Louisiana brigades. There were no
  men ... easier to lead in battle than these Louisiana Irishmen. I
  saw many examples of that superb Irish dash about which I had read
  much in history and romance of European wars.

  “I participated in the late afternoon and evening assault at
  Gettysburg on Lee’s left, when the Irish fighters on the Confederate
  side went to their death with a heroism at which I wondered. You
  have, of course, looked into the history of Meagher’s Irish Brigade.

  “I was in the battle of Fredericksburg on the Confederate left wing,
  and engaged the same day when that brigade was led (at another part
  of the field) to slaughter. I think that there was a cruelty in the
  plan of Federal attack which cannot be excused. If I remember aright
  the splendid brigade was nearly destroyed.

  “Meagher’s Brigade was specially prominent at Gaines’ Mill (or Cold
  Harbor), June 27; at Antietam (Sharpsburg), September 17, and at
  Fredericksburg, December 13, 1862. The United States government has
  never sufficiently recognized the services of that brigade. I wish
  our friend Fleming would have a resolution passed in congress to
  show that appreciation of their valor which has never been accorded.
  I suppose that Burnside’s friends did not want to go too deeply into
  the story of the fearful error which he made.

  “Pat Cleburne is a name which is as lovingly mentioned among us who
  are soldiers as the name of Stonewall Jackson. He was actually loved
  by the army in the West, where he was best known. Cleburne was
  killed in the Confederate assault on the desperately defended
  trenches of the Federals at Franklin, Tenn., November 30, 1864.
  President Davis said: ‘Around Cleburne thickly lay the gallant men
  who in his desperate assault followed him with the implicit
  confidence that in another army was given to Stonewall Jackson, and
  in the one case as in the other, a vacancy was created which could
  never be filled.’

  “I write immediately on reading your letter and on the idea that you
  simply want matters of my own memory. Some investigation would lead
  to a very interesting story of the Irish-Americans in our American
  wars, which I have been sometimes thinking of writing.

  “You will not forget that Father Ryan gave us the sweetest of our
  Southern poetry. I think also that the clergy in both armies should
  not be forgotten in any account of the Confederate struggle.”

Col. C. C. Sanders of Gainesville, colonel of the 24th Georgia, favors
me with a graphic description of the charge of Meagher’s Irish Brigade.
He says:

  “The writer was an eye witness to the charge of the Irish brigade at
  Fredericksburg. General Lee had, at the time, the finest army in
  history. Two formidable lines of battle were protected by a rock
  wall and defended by Cobb’s and Kershaw’s brigades of McLaw’s
  division (one-fourth of whom, I suppose, were Irishmen or of Irish
  extraction), and the famous Washington Artillery. In our immediate
  front one could walk on the dead for hundreds of yards. We were
  pained to see the noble fellows coming up in steady columns to be
  mowed down before our lines of solid flames of fire from our
  entrenched position behind the rock wall and the terrible fire from
  the Washington Artillery on Marie’s Hill, just in our rear and
  commanding every inch of approach.

  “The Irish Brigade would receive our well-directed fire steady and
  firm, and when great gaps were cut through their ranks by the
  artillery, would reform under the incessant fire, come again, sink
  down and rise again, trample the dead and wounded under foot and
  press the stone wall of liquid fire, then recede a few feet and come
  again, like an avalanche into the very jaws of death, until strength
  and endurance failed, having been forced back by shell and the
  deadly miniè ball that no human being could withstand. The field of
  battle ran great streams of blood, and the immortal Irish Brigade
  recoiled before the living wall of fire in glory.

  “I know of no charge upon the field of battle in history to compare
  to the charge of the Irish Brigade at Fredericksburg, unless it was
  Pickett’s Division at Gettysburg, or the Old Guard at Waterloo. The
  immortal Irish Brigade were soldiers indeed. I have heard, but I do
  not know whether it is correct, that after the Fredericksburg battle
  the United States government mustered out the Irish Brigade from
  service and placed all upon the pension roll. You can examine
  records or see for yourself as to its correctness. I have always
  felt proud of my one-fourth Irish blood. The Irish have fought the
  battles of all countries. I wish you success in your address, and
  three cheers for the Immortal Irish Brigade!”

Lieut. Gen. Longstreet says of the charge of Meagher’s Brigade: “The
manner in which Meagher’s Irish Brigade breasted the death storm from
Marie’s Heights of Fredericksburg, was the handsomest thing in the whole
war. Six times in the face of a withering fire, before which whole ranks
were mowed down as corn before the sickle, did the Irish Brigade run up
that hill—rush to inevitable death.”

Said the adjutant-general of Hancock’s staff: “I looked with my field
glasses, and I looked for a long time before I was certain of what I
saw. I at first thought that the men of Meagher’s Brigade had lain down
to allow the shower of shot and shell to pass over them, for they lay in
regular lines. I looked for some movement, some stir—a hand or foot in
motion; but no—they were dead—dead, every man of them.”

The following contribution from Mr. John L. Rapier, of the _Mobile
Register_, is highly appreciated: “When you ask me for the names and
deeds of glory of Irishmen and sons of Irishmen, in peace and war, ’tis
like putting one in the Klondike fields and asking him to pick up the
nuggets of gold that lie round about him. The field of my memory is full
of them. To be brief as possible:

  “Theodore O’Hara, poet, writer, one of the editors of the _Mobile
  Register_, wrote the immortal poem, ‘The Bivouac of the Dead,’
  adopted now by the government. The verses are cast in bronze and cut
  in marble and used in every National cemetery in the country.

  “The ‘Silver-tongued orator of the Chattahoochee,’ Gen. Alpheus
  Baker, of Eufaula, Ala., possibly the most wonderful orator that
  ever lived within the borders of our state.

  “General Finnegan, the hero of Olustee, Fla. I suppose you have him
  on your list already.

  “General O’Neal, ‘Old Tige,’ as the boys called him, after the war,
  governor of Alabama; a great old soldier and statesman.

  “Every company of the Third Alabama had in its ranks a generous
  infusion of Irish blood, and one company, the Emerald Guards, was
  composed entirely of Irishmen. This company lost three captains
  during the war: Captain Loughry, killed at Seven Pines; Captain
  Branigan, killed at Gettysburg; and Captain McGrath, desperately
  wounded at Williamsburg, Second Manassas, the Wilderness and
  Spottsylvania, was brought home to die—perfectly shattered by the
  enemy’s bullets; no hazardous or extra duty performed by the gallant
  Third, but what her Irish members had their full share.

  “The Sixth Alabama had an Irish company, the ‘Montgomery Grays.’
  This company carried to Virginia 103 men. It is declared that but
  eleven of this number returned after the war, and not one of these
  eleven returned unscathed. I am not familiar with the history of the
  Mississippi troops and never met many of the men from that state.

  “Of Louisiana, I recall that Wheat’s Tigers, the First Regiment of
  Louisiana Regulars (Gen. Gladden’s regiment); the First Regiment of
  Louisiana Volunteers and the Fourteenth Regiment Louisiana
  Volunteers were almost entirely composed of Irishmen and the sons of
  Irishmen. Nearly every regiment from that state had a fair
  sprinkling of the same blood. Even the famous Louisiana Zouaves and
  St. Paul’s Chasseurs, generally supposed to be entirely French, were
  more than one-third Irish. It always astonished me to see how
  accurately these Celts could obey an order given in French,
  especially when that order was ‘_En avant_’—i. e., ‘Forward.’ And
  did these gallant battalions furnish heroic soldiers? My dear sir, I
  could write a column on the subject.

  “Shall I pick out one and tell you of him? Then, without effort, I
  select ‘Mike Nolan’—Gen. Mike Nolan. When I was a little boy around
  New Orleans, I used to collect bills for sugar at a small grocery,
  right opposite the Charity hospital in that city. The owner of the
  store was a young, blue-eyed, light-haired Irishman, named Mike
  Nolan. Mild and polite and friendly in his manners; and I am sure it
  is no shame to my foresight that at that time I did not recognize in
  him the to be best, bravest and grandest soldier I ever met.

  “Nolan left New Orleans as a sergeant in one of the companies of the
  First Louisiana Volunteers; he quickly rose to a lieutenancy, then
  captain, lieutenant-colonel and colonel. He commanded his regiment
  with great bravery and ability. He was wounded at Sharpsburg, where
  he assumed command of his brigade upon the death of General Stark,
  who was killed in that battle. General Nolan’s commission as
  brigadier had not reached him when he was killed at Gettysburg.

  “Full, full of glory is the history of the Irishmen and the sons of
  Irishmen in Louisiana, in every branch of life, in the press, in the
  professions, in commerce, in the church and in deeds of valor upon
  the battlefields of Mexico and the South.”

Gen. Wm. B. Bate, the able and distinguished senator from Tennessee, has
furnished me with an important contribution with regard to the loyalty
and gallantry of such Irishmen and Irish-Americans as were connected
with the Confederate army.

To give the military career of such men would require a volume. There
were no more loyal and gallant men in the Confederate army, both as
soldiers and officers, and none was truer to our cause and stood by our
little flag with its stars and bars and cross of St. Andrew, from the
beginning to the ending, with more fidelity, pride and patriotism than
did the Irishmen and Irish-Americans who were enlisted in the
Confederate army.

The Irishman who won the most distinction on the Confederate side and
gained the highest rank was Major-General Patrick R. Cleburne. He was
formerly a private in the English army and when his connection with it
ceased he came to this country and at the time of the breaking out of
the war was a practising lawyer in Helena, Arkansas. He assisted in
raising a regiment of Arkansas troops and became its colonel. His
regiment was united with the Army of Tennessee, was at Bowling Green,
Ky., in General Hardee’s command, under Gen. Albert Sidney Johnson, and
went with it to Shiloh.

General Cleburne commanded a brigade that day composed principally of
Tennesseeans, which fought in Hardee’s corps and which composed the
front line of battle. General Bate’s regiment, the Second Tennessee
Infantry, C. S. A., composed its extreme left. He was from that time on
identified with the Army of Tennessee and its campaigns and battles. He
was subsequently promoted and commanded what is known as Cleburne’s
Division, was an active and efficient factor in the Army of Tennessee
until he was killed in the charge on the Federal breastworks at
Franklin, November 30, 1864.

Next to him in our army was Brigadier-General R. C. Tyler, an Irishman
by birth and an American by adoption. Gen. Tyler was living in Memphis
as a levee contractor when the war broke out and enlisted as a private,
became quartermaster of his regiment, went with it into the battle of
Belmont, its first engagement, and so distinguished himself that it was
but a short time until he was made colonel, and on its consolidation
with the Thirty-seventh he became colonel commanding the consolidation.
The regiment was assigned to General Bate’s original brigade and Tyler
was a part of it as colonel until after the battle of Chickamauga, in
which he again distinguished himself and under the recommendation of
General Bate he was made brigadier-general and put in command of his old
brigade, Bate having been in the meanwhile promoted to a
major-generalship.

General Tyler was wounded at Missionary Ridge and being unfit for field
duty, was assigned to the command at West Point, Ga. He was in command
of the fort there when the surrender of Generals Lee and Johnston’s
armies took place. When General Wilson with his cavalry demanded a
surrender of the fort, Tyler refused to give it up, though with but a
handful of men against thousands, and fell while defiantly fighting
against such odds rather than surrender.

Col. Grace, of the Tenth Tennessee, was an Irishman, a splendid soldier,
and was killed at the head of his regiment at the battle of Jonesboro’,
Ga. Lieutenant-Colonel O’Neil, of the same regiment, a brave soldier,
survived the war but died since. Company E of the Second Tennessee
Regiment was a company composed of Irishmen enlisted by Captain Casper
W. Hunt and served most gallantly throughout the entire war. This
company and the Tenth and Fifteenth regiments were all in Gen. Bate’s
command and composed of Irishmen, and no command made better records
than did they.

Senator Bate says the grandest and greatest Irishman in the Confederacy
was John Mitchell. He who was banished in “Lurid—’48” and condemned to
fourteen years’ imprisonment. He was sent to an English penal colony
from which he subsequently escaped and came to the United States by the
Pacific route and finally settled down near Knoxville, Tenn.

When the war broke out he was editing a paper in Knoxville, and was
appointed an assistant secretary to one of the governmental departments
at Richmond by Jefferson Davis. He had three sons, two of whom were
killed in the armies of the Confederate states and one who still lives
in New York City.

Mitchell was a brilliant writer and author and was imprisoned by the
Federals at Fort Warren at the close of the war. He was finally released
and after a few years returned to Ireland and was elected by the “Bloody
Tips” to the British Parliament, but was denied his seat. He was
reëlected and died during the pendency of his contest for the seat.

Thomas W. Wrenne, president of the Irish-American Centennial
Association, has furnished me with information relative to the troops
Tennessee gave to the Confederate cause and to the Union army:

To the Confederate states Tennessee gave (all volunteers), 108,000.

To the Federal government Tennessee gave (all volunteers), 31,092.

Possibly, excepting North Carolina, Tennessee gave more troops to the
Confederate states in proportion to the population than any other.

It is worthy of note that North Carolina is populated in a great measure
like Tennessee with Irish-American people. You know that most of the
Tennessee early settlers came over from North Carolina and both have
always been patriotic.

You will be agreeably surprised with the number of Irish-Americans among
the great men of Tennessee. Andrew Jackson, James K. Polk, Davy
Crockett, Sam Houston (I think Andrew Johnson), and General John Adams
were Irish-Americans.

The father and mother of General John Adams came direct from Ireland and
settled in Nashville. Their son was graduated from West Point. When the
last war began he gave his services to the C. S. A. He was a gallant and
brave soldier. His death on horseback on the top of the Federal
breastworks at Franklin was as remarkable a piece of heroism as the war
witnessed.




                   HUGH CARGILL, A FRIEND OF LIBERTY.

                BY THOMAS F. O’MALLEY, SOMERVILLE, MASS.


Hugh Cargill was born in Ballyshannon, Donegal, Ireland, about 1739, and
came to Boston in 1774, “in connection with the British
troops”[25]—probably a soldier in one of the regiments. Concerning his
early life in Boston little is known other than that he soon espoused
the cause of the patriots and left the British service. April 19, 1775,
found him at Concord, Mass., with the Provincial forces. When the enemy
fired the court house and endangered the records, Cargill, with one
Bullock, assisted in removing them to a place of safety.[26]

The events of that day hastened the recruiting of companies and the
formation of regiments. Cargill at once joined Capt. Abishia Brown’s
company which had been raised in the region around Concord and
Lexington. His military experience and training made him a valuable man
in the newly-organized command, and he was at once made a
non-commissioned officer, being the fourth in the list of sergeants of
the company.[27]

Captain Brown’s company was attached to Colonel Nixon’s Middlesex County
regiment and was one of the few companies of that command engaged at
Bunker Hill.

At the conclusion of his service in the army Mr. Cargill settled in
Boston and engaged in the business of a taverner or inn-keeper. In the
first Boston Directory (1789) he is described as a “retailer” with a
place of business on Cambridge street. After many years of close
application to business, and by careful management and economy, he
accumulated considerable money.

In 1790 he purchased from David Hyde the estate in which he carried on
his business.[28] The property consisted of a two-story house on the
westerly side of Cambridge street and bounded southerly on Alden lane.
In 1798 at the time of the levy of the direct tax it was valued at
$3,300.[29]

While in business, Mr. Cargill was active in the affairs of the
community and was especially interested in the local fire companies. On
April 26, 1786, he was proposed to the selectmen, by Capt. Edward
Ridgeway, for membership in his engine company, and “approved.”[30]
Ridgeway’s company was known as No. 6 and was a noted one at that time.
Cargill remained with this company for some years, for as late as 1790
we find his name on the list of members returned to the selectmen.[31]

During the early part of the year 1790 Mr. Cargill retired, and sold his
business to one Smith Coleman, evidently a fellow-countryman. In June,
1790, we find the latter applying for a license to sell spirituous
liquors at the house on Cambridge street “which was licensed last year
under the improvement of Hugh Cargill who is removed.”[32]

After his retirement from business Mr. Cargill spent some years in
Boston, during which he invested in lands in Woburn, Westford, Carlisle
and other surrounding towns.

Early in 1796 he took up his residence in historic Concord. There the
early days of his life on this side of the Atlantic had been spent;
there he saw his first service as an American soldier, and there he was
destined to end his days. In April, 1797, he purchased an extensive
tract of land “near the middle of the town,” known as the Stratton farm,
and made it his home.[33]

On November 27, 1798, he married Rebecca, daughter of Robert Estabrook,
of Concord, the knot being tied by the Rev. Ezra Ripley.[34] Mr.
Cargill’s wedded life was, unfortunately, brief. Within two weeks after
his marriage he was seized with an illness which ended his life on
January 12, 1799.[35]

His will, which is on file in the probate office at Cambridge, Mass.,
bears the date of December 6, 1798, and was witnessed by Jacob Brown,
Obadiah Hall and Paul Adams. The last named married the widow.[36]

By the will his widow was given the “free use and improvement of all the
real estate,” that he should die possessed of, during her natural life
or so long as she remained his widow. Upon her decease or marriage he
gave the Cambridge street estate to Samuel Chamberlain, providing he pay
to Hugh Cargill Maloney, son of Cornelius Maloney of Boston, and Hugh
Cargill Barrett, son of Benjamin Barrett of Carlisle, each the sum of
three hundred and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three cents. The
remainder of the estate, the will continues:

“I give and bequeath to the inhabitants of the town of Concord and
successors forever the residue of my real estate that I shall dye seized
of in said Commonwealth of Massachusetts; to come into possession of the
same at the decease or marriage of my wife above named and not before
and the income thereof to be solely applied for the support of the poor
of said town of Concord, and my will is that the care of the principal
and income of said estate be under the particular direction of the
selectmen of Concord for the time being; and that the said income be
uniformly and annually delivered by them to the poor of said town to
whom they shall think the proper objects of it; the sale of part of said
estate if thought best by the inhabitants of Concord when they are in
possession and the interest of the money coming by said sale to be
applied as above ordered I am content with: But the farm I give to the
town, called the Stratton farm, lying in the middle of the town of
Concord, I entail the same to be improved as a poor house and the land
to be improved by and for the benefit of the poor; and to be under the
special direction and care of the overseers of the poor of the town of
Concord for the time being for the purposes afore^{sd} for ever.”

His widow, Rebecca Cargill, on December 27, 1800, in anticipation of her
marriage to Paul Adams (which occurred August 2, 1801), executed
releases to the town of all her interest in the estate devised, and thus
vested the gift.[37] The estate is still used as a poor farm.

Mr. Cargill’s remains rest on the westerly slope of the Old Hill burial
ground in Concord, close by the grave of his wife, Rebecca Cargill
Adams, who died March 5, 1838. His grave is marked by a slab surmounted
by an urn in relief, on which is inscribed the initials of his name.
Beneath is the following inscription:[38]

                     Here lyes Intered the remains
                   of Mr. Hugh Cargill late of Boston
                  who died in Concord Jan^ry 12, 1799
                      in the 60th year of his age
            Mr. Cargill was born in Ballyshannon in Ireland
                came into this country in the year 1774
              destitute of the comforts of life but by his
              industry & economy he acquired a good estate
             and having no Children he at his death devis’d
              his estate to his wife Mrs. Rebecca Cargill
             and to a number of his Friends & Relations by
               Marriage & Especially a large and Generous
                  Donation to the Town of Concord for
                  Benevolent and Charitable purposes.

                 How strange O God who reigns on high,
                 That I should come so far to die,
                 And leave my friends where I was bred,
                 To lay my bones with strangers dead
                 But I have hopes when I arise,
                 To dwell with The in yonder skies.

This is the brief story of an humble Irish emigrant. No diarist has
recorded his doings, no writer has extolled his virtues. He lived the
quiet life of the ordinary man and performed his duty faithfully. His
character as pictured in the affairs and acts of his life shows the
man—true and noble-hearted.




                  THE IRISH SETTLERS OF PELHAM, MASS.

                BY MARY LESSEY LINEHAN, HARTFORD, CONN.


Almost every civil war, rebellion, insurrection, and outbreak in
Ireland, from the time of the Tudors downwards, arose more or less
directly from questions connected with the possession of lands. It was
the land question which helped to drive the Presbyterian Irish out, to
become pioneer Irish settlers in America. Whole villages of Irish people
were depopulated.

These clearances gave vast numbers of Irish settlers to America before
the Revolutionary War, and supplied the American army with a body of
brave, determined men. Massachusetts received a very large proportion of
the Irish in the eighteenth century, and being far the most important of
the old colonies, the history of its early settlement is, consequently,
interesting.

One of the most interesting inland settlements in the state of
Massachusetts is the town of Pelham, situated in the northwestern part
of Hampshire county, settled by Irish immigrants in 1738‒9. An
historical spot, as it was the dwelling place of that patriotic soldier,
Daniel Shea, who, after the Revolution, was one of the leaders in
“Shays’ Rebellion.”

In 1738 Robert Peibles, blacksmith, and James Thornton, yeoman, two
Irish immigrants, made a contract with Col. John Stoddard of
Northampton, Mass., for the purchase of his section of “Equivalent
Lands,” with the purpose of establishing thereon a colony of settlers
“who shall be such as were inhabitants of the Kingdom of Ireland or
their descendants.”

This contract having been carried into effect, Colonel Stoddard sold the
land to Robert Peibles, Patrick Peibles, James Thornton, Andrew
McFarland and others named in the deed. These with their families became
the first settlers of Pelham. Among the early settlers are the familiar
Celtic names, McCullough, McCullom, McConkey, Dick, Taylor, Gray,
McClain, Breckenridge, Gilmore, Macklan, McLachay, McNutt, McConnell,
Cochran, Savage, Hamilton, McMullen, McCartney, Joyce, Rankin, White,
McFall, Butler, Felton, Hoar, Griffin, Kelley, McNiell, McLallen,
McClintock.

The new settlement was called New Lisburn, after the town of Lisburn in
the southern part of County Antrim, on the banks of the Lagan, in
Ireland. Some of the settlers coming from Lisburn wished to call their
new home after the mother town, and until 1743 the settlement was called
New Lisburn, when it was changed to Pelham.

At the time of the purchase the condition of the soil was more fertile
than at present. Rye, oats, corn, and barley were raised in abundance,
as well as flax. The hills furnished excellent pasturage for cattle and
horses. The settlers were a quiet, honest, Godfearing people. The town
grew very slowly. In 1776 the population was 729. In 1800, 1,144. Since
the latter date it has decreased in population.

When the trouble arose between England and the colonies, the town of
Pelham was one of the first to answer a communication from the Committee
of Correspondence in Boston. A few literal extracts are interesting:

“To the Committee of Correspondence, Gentlemen: We have considered your
Circular letters and are not a little shoked at the attempts upon the
liberties of America ... we replied back also upon the unhappy Reign of
the Stuart family & bloody Struggles to subdue a free people to
Non-resistance and Passive obedience. We have still a more sense of the
worth of our Liberties by the total loss of them in the conquered
Kingdom of Ireland when altho made of the same one Blood they have a
yoke of Iron put upon their Necks and they must serve their conquerors
with as much of their money and blood as they are pleased to demand and
sustain more intolerable oppressions from these Legislative Masters and
unfeeling Landlords than some of the Barbarious Nations compared by the
Ancient Romans before the wars of their Empire.

“This so grievous a yoke upon the Western Isle which neither they nor
their fathers were able to bear has driven them by hundreds and by
thousands to bide a final adue to their otherwise Dear Native Land and
seek a peaceful Retreat from the bane of Oppressions in this American
Wilderness. Depending upon the faith of the Nation for all the
privileges chartered to American Colonies, we cannot therefore but be
greatly alarmed at the news of the Incroachments upon the Natural and
Chartered Rights of this Province where we have our abode.”

The military history of the town is an honorable one. In the War of the
Revolution a large number of the male residents took part. At the close
of the Revolution the town came into prominence on account of the part
many of its citizens took in “Shays’ Rebellion.” This rebellion was not
prompted by any spirit of disloyalty, nor was it designed or plotted to
overturn the government. It was the wild and lawless expression of
discontent with harsh circumstances, the natural outbreak of those who
were suffering and oppressed.

Daniel Shea, one of the leaders in this rebellion, was a remarkable man.
Very little is known about his early life. His birthplace has been
assigned to Hopkinton, Mass., but this has been disputed. There is a
tradition that his parents and young Shea came from County Cork,
Ireland, and that they lived for some time on the eastern border of
Pelham. He spells his name both “Shea” and “Shays.”

Wherever his birthplace was, one thing is certain concerning him, he
hated England and all things English. Little is known concerning his
life in Pelham previous to the Revolution except what is traditionary.

After the battle of Lexington he was among the first to join a company
of minute men. He was promoted for bravery at the battle of Bunker Hill,
and shared in the campaign resulting in Burgoyne’s surrender. Nothing
shows more clearly the loyal spirit of Daniel Shea than his conduct
during the Revolution. He took a deep interest in a cause which involved
the dearest interests of his country.

Shea returned to Pelham at the close of the war, and in 1781 was chosen
by the town as a member of the Committee of Safety. He was prominent in
other town offices up to the time of the insurrection, and was a
respected citizen. The insurrection is a matter of history and need not
be dwelt on here. Out of the one hundred and fifty men who were
captured, fourteen were tried and sentenced to death, but were
afterwards pardoned. After remaining in hiding for some time, Shea was
pardoned. Having received his pardon, he went to New York state, where
all trace of him is lost.

That Pelham was a distinctively Irish settlement is clearly shown on the
occasion of the settling of the first pastor, Rev. Robert Abercrombie, a
Scotchman. Rev. Mr. Abercrombie was educated at Edinburgh University and
came to this country in 1740 as a licensed preacher. He came to Pelham
in 1742. There arose a division at once in the church. One of the
reasons for the division was the fact of his being a Scotchman and of
his demanding rigid adherence to the doctrines and requirements of the
Church of Scotland.

The majority of the members of the Presbyterian church of Pelham wanted
an Irish Presbyterian clergyman. After a great deal of controversy Mr.
Abercrombie was settled as a pastor. He was unfortunate in having a
strong element of opposition to contend against from his first
connection with the people of Pelham, as shown by the strong protest
against his settlement. After preaching a few years he was compelled to
resign his pastorate.

While the Irish Presbyterians predominated, there were some who were
members of the Church of England and some Roman Catholics. A spirit of
harmony always existed in this community. The people were peaceable,
respecting the rights of others and demanding the same respect in
return.

These early settlers brought with them many of the customs and
traditions of the Emerald Isle, and until after the Revolution they
spoke with a rich Irish brogue. In 1765 many of the settlers, who had
become dissatisfied with the soil and other existing conditions, moved
westward, and joining a colony of settlers from Ballibay, Ireland,
helped to found the town of Salem, N. Y.

Among the descendants of the early settlers who became noted were: Ira
P. Rankin, collector of the port of San Francisco, appointed by
President Lincoln.

Adam Johnson, one of the benefactors of Amherst College, and for whom
the “Johnson Chapel” is named.

Dr. Israel Taylor, a leading physician in Amherst, Mass., until his
death in 1890.

Ithamar Conkey, for a number of years town clerk of Pelham, and in 1830
appointed judge of probate. His son, Ithamar F. Conkey, one of the
leading lawyers of the Massachusetts bar, was a resident of Amherst,
Mass., until his death.

There are very few of the descendants of the original settlers living in
the town of Pelham to-day.




            THOMAS FAWCETT, IRISH QUAKER, AMERICAN PIONEER.

         CONTRIBUTED BY THOMAS PLUNKETT, EAST LIVERPOOL, OHIO.


  The following article possesses sufficient historical interest, I
  think, to merit a place in the JOURNAL of the American-Irish
  Historical Society. The article was evidently written by some one
  well acquainted with the Fawcett family and appeared in the
  _Tribune_ of East Liverpool, Ohio, Aug. 9, 1900. It interested me
  and I thought it might also interest my fellow-members of the
  Society. I therefore send it to you.[39]

There has just been erected and completed a granite memorial monument in
Riverview Cemetery[40] an illustration of which is given below, which is
worthy of mention in the _Tribune_. It will be found to the right of the
main driveway, and about midway in the section which slopes gently to
the south, and faces the city which was founded by Thomas Fawcett about
1800[41] just one hundred years ago. Here, in a beautiful lot, have been
placed the remains of these old pioneers, which were buried in the old
cemetery now going to ruin, and soon to be abandoned. The _Tribune_
takes pleasure in illustrating the memorial and giving the several
inscriptions:

                           SOUTH INSCRIPTION.

 +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
 |                       =THOMAS FAWCETT=,                           |
 |       A QUAKER, WAS BORN IN IRELAND IN 1747; DIED IN 1820.        |
 |                                                                   |
 |                     =ISABELLA SNODGRASS=,                         |
 |       HIS WIFE, WAS BORN IN IRELAND IN 1754; DIED IN 1825.        |
 |                                                                   |
 |            These two were married in Ireland in 1772.             |
 |       All their children (eight) were born in Pennsylvania.       |
 |                  They emigrated to Ohio in 1795.                  |
 | This pioneer platted “Fawcettstown,” now East Liverpool, in 1798. |
 |                             ----                                  |
 |    This memorial was erected by the fourth generation in 1900.    |
 +-------------------------------------------------------------------+

                           NORTH INSCRIPTION.

     +------------------------------------------------------------+
     |     =JOSEPH FAWCETT.=            =ESTHER WHITE=, his wife. |
     |         1773‒1825.                     1778‒1829.          |
     |                                                            |
     |                      THEIR CHILDREN:                       |
     |                                                            |
     | ELIZABETH FAWCETT WARRICK.          ROBERT E. FAWCETT.     |
     |         1801‒1834.                      1803‒ ----         |
     |                                                            |
     |       NANCY FAWCETT.                  THOMAS FAWCETT.      |
     |         1809‒1834.                      1813‒ ----         |
     |                                                            |
     |    JOSEPH W. FAWCETT, JR.            DANIEL W. FAWCETT.    |
     |         1817‒ ----                      1820‒ ----         |
     +------------------------------------------------------------+

                           WEST INSCRIPTION.

                      +-------------------------+
                      |    JOSEPH HAMILTON.     |
                      |          ----           |
                      | MARY FAWCETT, his wife. |
                      |                         |
                      |       1780‒1836.        |
                      +-------------------------+

                           EAST INSCRIPTION.

                    +-----------------------------+
                    |   JULIA A. HUMRICKHOUSE.    |
                    |         1815‒1878.          |
                    |            ----             |
                    | JULIA FAWCETT-HUMRICKHOUSE. |
                    |         1848‒1876.          |
                    +-----------------------------+

The late James H. Goodwin, a descendant of Abigail Fawcett, daughter of
Thomas Fawcett, had in his possession the oldest record of Thomas
Fawcett’s family. He had special interest in matters historical, and
gathered all the data he could find relating to the Fawcetts and Smiths.
He offered to donate a lot in Riverview cemetery and share the expense
of removing these old pioneers to a place where their remains could
sleep in peace, and rest undisturbed forevermore.

This matter was very dear to his heart, and he contemplated doing just
what has been done, when death claimed him so suddenly the night of
President McKinley’s election in November, 1896. He had in his
possession the original deed granting to Isaac Craig, of Pittsburgh,
Pa., sections Nos. 23 and 24, in range No. 1, township No. 5, bought
December 6, 1796, the deed being dated at Philadelphia, Pa., August 30,
1798, signed by John Adams, president.

Also the deed from Isaac Craig to Thomas Fawcett, conveying the same
sections of land containing 1,090 75‒100 acres for the consideration of
$3,651.00 cash; both deeds are in a good state of preservation, having
been written on parchment.

These relics had been in possession of John Fawcett of Wooster, Ohio,
and at his death fell into the hands of Mrs. Julia Humrickhouse, thence
to her son George, deceased, and through his wife, Mrs. Clara B.
Humrickhouse, to James H. Goodwin.

Thomas Fawcett and his wife, Isabella, were among the earliest settlers
in Chartier’s Valley, Washington county, Pa., and lived there until
about 1795, when they moved to this place, then a part of the Northwest
Territory. His daughter, Abigail Fawcett, married Joseph Smith, father
of the late Wm. G. Smith, and through this union James H. Goodwin,
George S. Goodwin, Henry S. Goodwin, Homer S. Knowles, Mrs. Jno. N.
Taylor, Mrs. Esther Thomas, Mrs. Louisa Anderson, Mrs. Susan Harker, and
all their children, are descended from Thomas Fawcett.

Thomas Fawcett’s eldest son, Joseph, married Esther White, and their
daughter, Elizabeth, married the late George Anderson, on whose farm
Riverview cemetery is located. Of their children four are living—Matthew
Anderson, John Anderson and Miss Lizzie Anderson of this city,[42] and
Joseph Anderson, living in Colorado. The children of Thomas Fawcett
Anderson, deceased, also live with their mother in this city. Mary
Fawcett, another daughter of Joseph and Esther White, married William
Hill, deceased, and two of her children are living here—Mrs. Mary
Hill-Andrews, of Seventh street, and George Hill, on the old farm north
of town.

Julia Fawcett-Humrickhouse was another daughter, and a sister of Mrs.
Anderson and Mrs. Hill. She made her home before her marriage with her
brother John, who married Julia R. Larwell. Miss Rest Humrickhouse,
daughter of Mr. George A. Humrickhouse, this city, is the only living
descendant of this branch of the Fawcett family.

Through Elizabeth Fawcett, who married John Nessly, are descended Mrs.
Matilda Wallace of Hammondsville, Mrs. Judith McCoy of McCoy’s Station,
Jefferson county, and Mrs. Nancy Nessly Winstanley, who was born in
Jefferson county and moved to Cabrey, Ill. Her brother, Rev. John F.
Nessly, is a minister of the Pittsburgh M. E. conference.


                    THOMAS FAWCETT’S FAMILY RECORD.

Thomas Fawcett was born in Ireland, June 11, 1747.

Isabella Snodgrass was born in Ireland, March 1, 1754.

Thomas Fawcett and Isabella Snodgrass were married in Ireland, February
26, 1772.

Their children were all born in the Chartier’s Valley, Pennsylvania:

Joseph was born January 16, 1773.

Thomas was born Sept. 13, 1774.

Abigail was born July 15, 1778.

Mary was born June 30, 1780.

Elizabeth was born April 15, 1782.

John was born January 13, 1784.

Isabella was born June 4, 1792.

Benjamin was born July 2, 1794.

Thomas Fawcett, Sr., died September 19, 1820.

Isabella Fawcett, Sr., died December 4, 1825.


                               MARRIAGES.

Joseph Fawcett was married to Esther White.

Thomas Fawcett was married to Sarah Hamilton.

Abigail Fawcett was married to Joseph Smith.

Mary Fawcett was married to Joseph Hamilton.

Elizabeth Fawcett was married to John Nessly.

John Fawcett was married to Julia R. Larwell.

Benjamin Fawcett was married to Hannah Zane.

Isabella Fawcett did not marry.




EARLY NEW HAMPSHIRE IRISH; SOME PRE-REVOLUTIONARY DENNISES, CORNELIUSES,
                         PATRICKS AND MICHAELS.

                        BY HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN.


Among the Christian names common to the Irish people, especially to
those of the Catholic faith, few were more numerous, a century ago, than
those mentioned in the caption to this article. They were rare among the
Scotch, English, or Welsh. None of them was of Gaelic or old Irish
origin. They came to the ancient Irish with their religion, and, like
their faith, have become nationalized.

According to Lecky, the conquest of Ireland by Cromwell’s soldiers was
not more complete than the conquest of the soldiers by their Irish
wives; their offspring assumed Irish given names, and were brought up in
the faith of their mothers. This was the subject of a complaint against
the Irish government to Henry Cromwell, the son of Oliver. How true this
may have been, it is needless to discuss, but the presence of so many in
New Hampshire before the Revolution bearing the names alluded to, is in
part evidence of the truth of what Lecky wrote, and Prendergast
commented on, for not a few of the surnames are English in appearance.

Darby Field came to New Hampshire in 1631. The date is so remote that no
attempt has thus far been made to denationalize him. Consequently, he
remains on the records as a plain “Irish soldier for discovery.” His
home was in Exeter. He is credited with being the first in the English
