The Project Gutenberg EBook of USDA Farmers' Bulletin No. 1346: Carpet
Beetles and Their Control, by E. A. Back

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: USDA Farmers' Bulletin No. 1346: Carpet Beetles and Their Control

Author: E. A. Back

Release Date: April 28, 2019 [EBook #59378]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CARPET BEETLES AND THEIR CONTROL ***




Produced by Tom Cosmas compiled from images made available
by The Internet Archive.









Transcriber Notes

Text emphasis denoted by _Italics_ amd =Bold=.




                    U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      FARMERS' BULLETIN No. 1346




                            CARPET BEETLES
                               AND THEIR
                                CONTROL


CARPET BEETLES, or so-called "buffalo moths," are common household
pests usually associated in their destructive work with clothes moths.
Ordinarily they are not so destructive as clothes moths, because they
reproduce only once a year, and then not so abundantly.

Experienced housewives throughout the North are familiar with the
stout, oval, reddish-brown, hairy grubs or larvæ of the common carpet
beetle, found beneath carpets or in clothing. In southern homes,
however, the longer, slender, golden-brown larva of the black carpet
beetle, with its tuft of golden bristles, is more common.

All carpet-beetle larvæ feed upon fabrics or upon various articles,
including upholstered furniture, containing wool, silk, hair, fur,
bristles, or feathers. They even feed upon dried animal matter.

Protection against carpet beetles can be secured in tight chests and
trunks by the use of the crystals of naphthalene, paradichlorobenzene,
or camphor, or by the fumigants carbon disulphid and carbon
tetrachloride Where infestation is general throughout a house
or is serious in closets, it may be advisable to fumigate with
hydrocyanic-acid gas, carbon disulphid, or sulphur, but none of these
fumigation methods should be employed except by a person well informed
regarding them. The foregoing remedies and others, such as cold
storage, red-cedar chests, heat, and the treatment of infested floor
cracks, are discussed in this bulletin.



Washington, D. C.

July, 1923




CARPET BEETLES AND THEIR CONTROL.


By E. A. Back, _Entomologist in Charge of Stored-Product Insect
Investigations, Bureau of Entomology_.




CONTENTS.

                                              Page.

  Carpet beetles or "buffalo moths"              1
    The common carpet beetle                     2
    The black carpet beetle                      4
    The varied carpet beetle                     6
    The furniture carpet beetle                  7
  Control measures                               9
    Naphthalene                                 10

                                              Page.

  Control measures--Continued.
    Paradichlorobenzene                         10
    Camphor                                     10
    Red-cedar chests                            11
    Cold storage                                11
    Fumigation                                  11
    Miscellaneous control measures              12




CARPET BEETLES OR "BUFFALO MOTHS."


THE so-called "buffalo moths" are not moths; they are beetles and
very distinct from the true clothes moths. In this country there are
six species,[1] at least, that attack museum materials and household
fabrics, but of these only four[2] have proved serious household pests
in America. All species are capable of subsisting upon dried animal
remains, and thrive upon them perhaps as well as upon the fine fabrics
of wool, hair, feathers, fur, and silk.

[1] _Anthrenus scrophulariae_ L., _A. museorum_ L., _A. fasciatus_
Hbst., _A. lepidus_ LeC, _A. verbasci_ L., and _Attagenus piceus_ Oliv.

[2] _Anthrenus scrophulariae_ L., _A. verbasci_ L., _A. fasciatus_
Hbst., and _Attagenus piceus_ Oliv.

Carpet beetles pass through life cycles, or generations, consisting
of egg, larva or grub, pupa, and adult or beetle. These stages
differ greatly in appearance. The beetles are broadly oval and about
three-sixteenths to one-fourth of an inch long; black, but with this
blackness often obscured by tiny red, orange, brown, yellow, or white
scales which form color designs characteristic of the species. These
scales, which are modified hairs, are easily rubbed off, revealing the
black color of the body beneath. The larvæ, or grubs (as the larvæ of
beetles are often called) are brownish or black and variously clothed
with stiff hairs, as shown in Figures 1 and 8, or with a long tuft of
hairs at the end of the body, as shown in Figure 5. Carpet beetles
pass through not more than two generations annually, and more often
only one, and there are records of certain individuals requiring much
longer, even three years, to complete their growth. The following
accounts are given of the four most important species.


THE COMMON CARPET BEETLE.[3]

[3] _Anthrenus scrophulariae_ L.

The common carpet beetle was known as _the_ carpet beetle in the years
following its introduction into America when floors were more commonly
than, now covered entirely with carpets that were tacked down along the
edges, thus giving the larvæ an undisturbed shelter favorable to their
development. Originally a pest in Europe, where it is still common, it
was introduced into this country about 1874, probably at Boston and New
York simultaneously. No stage of this common carpet beetle is longer
than three-sixteenths to one-fourth of an inch. The general proportions
of larva, pupa, and adult are shown in Figure 1. The rich reddish brown
larvæ are clothed with stiff dark brown hairs which are longer around
the sides, and still longer at the ends, than upon the back.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.--The common carpet beetle: _a_, Larva, dorsal
view; _b_, pupa within larval skin; _c_, pupa, ventral view; _d_,
adult. All enlarged (Riley.)]

The larvæ feed upon carpets and woolens (Fig. 2), furs, feathers (Fig.
3), bristles, and silks. They remain secluded in dark places, hidden
beneath carpets or in the folds of garments. They eat irregular holes
in fabrics, but in carpets tacked to floors they are more likely to eat
slits following cracks. They never cause a webbing on the fabric.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.--Typical carpet beetle damage to woolen cloth.
For injury to feathers see Fig. 3.]

While most conspicuous in the Northern States, this carpet beetle is
frequently found in the latitude of Washington, D. C, and southward
Specimens have, recently been sent from Texas and Florida. In a
Washington storehouse the contents of a trunk closed for several years
were found badly damaged by the larvæ.

The following account[4] is just as applicable to-day as when written
many years ago.

[4] Howard, L. 0., in Bulletin 4, new series, Division of Entomology,
United States Department of Agriculture, pp. 58-59. 1896.

 The adult insect is a small, broad-oval beetle, about three-sixteenths
 of an inch long, black in color, but is covered with exceedingly
 minute scales, which give it a marbled black-and-white appearance.
 It also has a red stripe down the middle of the back, widening into
 projections at three intervals. When disturbed it "plays 'possum,"
 folding up its legs and antennæ and feigning death As a general thing
 the beetles begin to appear in the fall, and continue to issue, in
 heated houses, throughout the winter and following spring. Soon after
 issuing they pair, and the females lay their eggs in convenient spots.
 The eggs hatch, under favorable conditions, in a few days, and the
 larvæ, with plenty of food, develop quite rapidly. Their development
 is retarded by cold weather or lack of food, and they remain alive
 in the larval state, in such conditions and particularly in a dry
 atmosphere, for an almost indefinite period molting frequently and
 feeding upon their cast skins. Under normal conditions, however the
 skin is cast about six times, and there are, probably, in the North,
 not more than two annual generations. When the larva reaches full
 growth the yellowish pupa is formed within the last larval skin.
 Eventually this skin splits down the back and reveals the pupa,
 from which the beetle emerges later. The beetles are day fliers,
 and when not engaged in egg laying are attracted to the light. They
 fly to the windows, and may often be found upon the sills or panes.
 Where they can fly out through an open window they do so, and are
 strongly attracted to the flowers of certain plants, particularly
 the family Scrophulariaceæ but also to certain Composite, such as
 milfoil (_Achillea millefolium_). The flowers of Spiræa are also
 strongly attractive to the beetles. It is probable, however, that this
 migration from the house takes place, under ordinary circumstances
 after the eggs have been laid.

[Illustration: Fig. 3.--Feathers damaged by fabric pests. Injury
has been done here by clothes moths and carpet beetles. They reduce
feathers to a mat-like mass.]

In Europe the insect is not especially noted as a household pest,
probably owing to the fact that carpets are seldom tacked down. In
fact, the writer believes that only where carpets are extensively used
in this way are the conditions favorable for the great increase of this
insect. Carpets once tacked down are seldom taken up for a year, and in
the meantime the insect develops uninterruptedly. With the more general
use of polished floors, and rugs which are often taken up and beaten,
there is little doubt that the "buffalo bug" will eventually cease to
be a household insect of importance. The insect is known in Europe as
infesting museums, but has not acquired this habit to any great extent
in this country. It is known to have this habit in Cambridge, Mass.,
and Detroit, Mich., as well as in San Francisco, Calif., but not in
other localities. In each of these three cases it was imported from
Europe in insect collections.

THE BLACK CARPET BEETLE.[5]

[5] _Attagenus piceus_ Oliv.

The black carpet beetle derives its common name from the black,
unadorned color of the adult. Its larva is reddish or golden brown,
long and slender, with a characteristic tuft of long hairs at the end
of its body. It curls up and "plays 'possum" when disturbed. A glance
at Figure 5 will be sufficient for the identification of this unique
carpet-beetle larva.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.--Black carpet beetle: Dorsal view of adult
beetle. Greatly enlarged.]

Widespread in Europe and Asia, it first attracted attention in America
in 1854. Since then it has become widely distributed throughout the
United States, often being the most injurious of the carpet beetles,
especially in the more southern States. It is the carpet beetle most
commonly referred by housewives to the department for identification.
It feeds upon household fabrics of wool, feathers, fur, hair, and silk,
and also upon cereals and cereal products, seeds, and dried animal
remains, hence has many opportunities for existence in warehouses and
barns as well as in houses.

=The adult.=--The adult of the black carpet beetle is small, oval, and
black, as shown in Figure 4. The adults are present in abundance only
during the early summer. In a steam-heated building at Washington, D.
C, large numbers of adults were present late in April and during May,
but became rather scarce during the first part of June, although single
adults were found as late as early in July. The adult flies readily and
is often seen crawling on window panes and screens. It is during the
adult stage that the black carpet beetle spreads most easily from house
to house.

The female beetle lays small, white, fragile eggs upon fabrics, in
floor cracks, or in any sheltered spot near its food. The length of
life of the parent insect ranges from 3 to 35 days during April, May,
and June. Seldom are adults found later than July, except in very warm
storage houses.

=The egg.=--The fragile white eggs are very seldom seen, and hatch in
warm weather in about 6 to 10 days.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.--Black carpet beetle: Larval skin showing the
typical shape of the larva and the long tuft of bristles at the end of
the body. Greatly enlarged.]

=The larva.=--The golden brown larva, with short, stiff body hairs,
and its long tuft of hairs at the end of the body (Fig. 5), attains a
length of one-fourth of an inch, exclusive of the tuft of hair at the
end of the body. When first hatched it is almost microscopic in size,
but increases rapidly under favorable food and climatic conditions.
As it grows it sheds its skin from five to eleven times, and possibly
oftener. This is of interest, for frequently the cast skins are
mistaken for the insect itself, thus unnecessarily alarming the
housewife concerning the abundance of this carpet beetle. It required
approximately one year for larvæ to become fully grown when fed upon
casein. Larvæ hatching during early June and fed upon casein became
full grown and transformed to the adult stage during the following
April, May, and June. Larvæ fed upon woolen cloth and silk and flour
and meal were still only partially grown at the end of one year,
indicating that the black carpet beetle may require two years for its
development. In India it has been found that certain of these larvæ may
require from one to three years for growth.

[Illustration: Fig. 6.--Black carpet beetle: Ventral view of pupa.
Greatly enlarged.]

=The pupa.=--In the pupa stage the insect is white, clothed with fine
white hairs (Fig. 6), and helpless. The pupa stage continues from 6 to
16 days during early summer at Washington, D. C, and is seldom found at
any other season of the year.

=Seasonal history.=--Since the greater part of the life cycle is passed
in the larva stage, the facts previously mentioned indicate that the
black carpet beetle may have only one generation each year, although
it may require two or three years for the same development. From the
observation of the writer, made in houses, warehouses, and in the
laboratory at Washington, there seems little doubt that a very large
percentage of the insects have one generation each year. Farther north,
or under less favorable climatic and food conditions, a generation may
require two or even three years. At any rate, the adults are on the
wing during early summer and the eggs for new infestations are laid
then.

[Illustration: Fig. 7.--The varied carpet beetle: Dorsal view. Greatly
enlarged.]


THE VARIED CARPET BEETLE.[6]

[6] _Anthrenus verbasci_ L.

The varied carpet beetle is similar in shape to the common carpet
beetle,[7] but is a trifle smaller. It is called the "varied" carpet
beetle because the color pattern on the back of the beetle varies
considerably with the arrangement of the white, brownish, and yellowish
scales. Figure 7 presents a common arrangement of the scales. The
underside of the body is thickly clothed with white scales. This insect
is a European pest now well established in widely separated parts of
the United States. It has been found more often perhaps feeding upon
seeds in museums than upon clothing, though its larvæ do attack woolen
goods, feathers, hair, and silks.

[7] _Anthrenus scrophulariae_ L.

The larvæ are not unlike other carpet beetle larvæ of the genus
Anthrenus. In Figures 8 and 9 are shown the newly hatched and the
mature larvæ. When unmutilated, they posses on each side at the end of
the body three dense tufts of bristles and hairs. If suddenly alarmed,
the larvæ erect these tufts and spread the bristles and hairs out so as
to form beautiful round balls.

[Illustration: Fig. 8.--Varied carpet beetle: Dorsal view of newly
hatched larva. Greatly enlarged.]

During late spring and early summer, when the insect transforms to the
adult stage in greatest numbers, the adults are driven by instinct to
seek the bright sunshine and the pollen of certain flowers. In this
respect they are not unlike other species of carpet beetles, the adults
of which may be found also upon flowers. Some think that Viburnum or
Spiraea bushes planted near the house will lure carpet beetles from the
house. It is probably true, however, that the beetles, before leaving
the house, lay a large percentage of their eggs, so that the attraction
the sun and flowers have for them is of so little practical value to
the householder that it is not worth while to depend upon flowers to
lure the adults from the house.

The varied carpet beetle in the adult stage flies about in tremendous
numbers. During May, 1922, the writer could capture them by the
thousands upon at least 30 species of flowers found in public gardens
in Washington, D. C. Single white roses often attracted more than 100
beetles, while a single stalk of a common herbaceous Spiraea harbored
more than 1,000 specimens. The beetles often fly in large numbers
rather high above the ground. A gentleman[8] after painting a portion
of the tin roof of his house during early May returned 24 hours later
to complete the painting, only to find that during the interim an
average of two varied carpet beetles to the square inch had become
entangled in the fresh paint. The writer observed two adults fly into
his city apartment in Washington through an open window during early
March, 1922. These flights of adults are of extreme importance to the
householder, because they emphasize how readily carpet beetles may
spread from house to house during spring and early summer. Window
screens will exclude all except the smallest specimens if they fit
tightly, but the average removable screen does not fit tightly enough
to prevent adult carpet beetles from crawling into the house between
screen and window frame.

[8] H. S. Barber.

THE FURNITURE CARPET BEETLE.[9]

[9] _Anthrenus fasciatus_ Herbst.

The carpet beetle or dermestid[10] here discussed has had no common
name, but may be called the furniture carpet beetle (Fig. 10). It,
too, is a European pest introduced into this country. It has been
reported from Algeria, Spain, Greece, southern Russia Mesopotamia, and
the East Indies It was first recognized in America during 1911, from
specimens sent the American Museum of Natural History, New York City,
from an upholsterer in Augusta, Ga. The specimen were taken from the
curled hair of furniture upholstered 12 to 15 years previous to 1911.
Investigation indicated that the hair used in this furniture came from
Russia. The pest was not again noted in America until April, 1915,
when it was found seriously damaging an upholstered chair in the White
House. Since then, particularly during the last several years, many
pieces of furniture and mattresses in different sections have been
reported badly damaged.

[10] So called because, like the other carpet beetles, it belongs to
the family Dermestidae.

[Illustration: Fig. 9.--The varied carpet beetle: Dorsal view of
well-grown larva. Greatly enlarged.]

In all instances the furniture was upholstered with curled hair and
moss, and in some cases the hair had been completely devoured by the
larvæ, in association with smaller numbers of the common carpet beetle,
the black carpet beetle, and the webbing clothes moth. (Figs. 11 and
12.)

[Illustration: Fig. 10.--The furniture carpet beetle: _a_, Well-grown
larva; _b_, larval skin; _c_, pupa within larval skin; _d_, two
beetles.]

This beetle is now well established in this country and is a most
serious furniture pest. The adults eat holes through heavy leather
and linen coverings, while the larvæ reduce the hair used in the
upholstering to a mass of cast larval skins and ground-up hair.
The hair then has the appearance of black gritty dirt which can be
scraped up by the handful, if not by the pailful. When the larvæ
become abundant in a piece of furniture they may drop to the floor
and there feed upon rugs and other fabrics made of wool, hair, fur,
or feathers. The larva; or grubs are seldom seen unless searched for,
but the adults, because of their habit of flight during March to June
(in Washington), leave the furniture and crawl about the furnishings
and windows, and while hardly one-fourth of an inch long, are made
conspicuous by the brown, white, and yellow scales that cover their
bodies.

[Illustration: Fig. 11.--Upholstered furniture sometimes harbors
thousands of clothes moths and carpet beetles without showing evidence
of their feeding until they have become very abundant. From this couch
thousands of adult carpet beetles were found emerging, and spreading
about the house. Only reupholstering or fumigation will rid such a
piece of furniture of pests.]

For a general impression of the appearance of the furniture carpet
beetle see Figure 10. The adult may live several weeks. The female
has been known to lay as many as 36 eggs in one day. Fortunately this
species does not seem to be very prolific, since no adult has been
known to lay more than 85 eggs. The eggs are small, white, easily
crushed by brushing, and are laid in the nap of clothing. In furniture
coverings of mohair, plush, and similar materials the eggs are tucked
down in the pile, as shown in Figure 13. The eggs hatch during warm
summer weather in from 12 to 15 days. The larvæ require the rest of the
year for growth and do not transform to the adult until the following
spring. The larvæ, however, do not all grow equally well, and some
specimens may require only one year for development, while others may
remain for considerable periods somewhat dormant, even in the presence
of much food, and will not transform to the adult until much later,
sometimes as long as one year after others, hatching on the same day,
have matured.

[Illustration: Fig. 12.--Leather covering at end of couch shown in
Figure 11, loosened to expose the work of the furniture carpet beetle.
Note that this pest, working with fewer numbers of clothes moths and
black carpet beetles, has eaten nearly all the curled hair stuffing,
leaving behind the moss used with the hair, countless larval skins, and
handfuls of a fine, gritty, dirtlike substance which is nothing more
nor less than the frass of the insect. Thousands of carpet beetles can
mature in such furniture without the knowledge of the casual observer.
It is only when the stuffing is eaten away and the pests leave the
furniture and crawl about the house that suspicion is centered upon
furniture as the possible source of an unending supply of clothes moths
and carpet beetles that appear here and there about the house.]




CONTROL MEASURES.


The measures to be used for the control of carpet beetles depend upon
the place in the house where the pest is causing injury. If carpet
beetles are troublesome in trunks, chests, or closets that are not
opened often, a good grade of flake naphthalene, paradichlorobenzene
or camphor will give good results. If the trouble is in closets in
daily use, beneath carpets or rugs, or in piano felts or upholstered
furniture, these substances are of practically no value, and one must
fumigate the house as a whole or in part with either hydrocyanic-acid
gas, carbon disulphid, or carbon tetrachlorid, or use the still older,
more tedious, and less effective means of control consisting in
frequent search for and the killing of the individual larvæ and adults,
and the treatment of floor cracks and similar hiding places with
kerosene, gasoline, or benzine. The following materials and methods may
be employed with satisfactory results:

[Illustration: Fig. 13.--Eggs of the furniture carpet beetle laid in
the pile of a plush mohair covering of a chair. Considerably enlarged:
the eggs are smaller than the head of a common pin and white In color.]


NAPHTHALENE.

Naphthalene in the form of flakes (preferably) or moth balls is
effective when used at the rate of one-half to 1 pound to each 10 to 13
cubic feet of space. It is always better to use a larger rather than
a smaller quantity of these crystals Great care should be exercised
to keep tightly closed the trunks or chests of clothing with which
the naphthalene is stored. Naphthalene in chests opened frequently or
those carelessly left open for hours at a time, or in chests with large
cracks or warped covers, is not to be depended upon. Naphthalene should
be of good grade. It is best to purchase it put up in unbroken tin cans
of 1 pound or more capacity. Remember that naphthalene kills all stages
of the carpet beetles by means of the fumes given off during the slow
evaporation of its crystals and it is essential that these fumes be
closely confined. Naphthalene in bureau drawers, in closets frequently
used, scattered upon closet shelves, or beneath carpets is not to be
depended upon for absolute protection.


PARADICHLOROBENZENE.

Paradichlorobenzene crystals are similar in general appearance to
those of naphthalene. The fumes given off by the slow evaporation of
the crystals in a tightly closed container will kill all stages of the
carpet beetle, if about 1 pound of crystals is used for each 10 cubic
feet of space.


CAMPHOR.

Camphor is not as quickly effective against all stages of carpet
beetles as are naphthalene and paradichlorobenzene. Its action is
slower. Use from one-half to 1 pound for each trunk of about 10 cubic
feet capacity.


RED-CEDAR CHESTS.

Chests made of red cedar, popularly known as Virginia[11] or Tennessee
red cedar, if well constructed, will kill the very young larvæ of
carpet beetles. They will not kill the beetles, the older larvæ, or
the pupae, nor will they prevent the eggs from hatching. The writer
has known larvæ of the black carpet beetle[12] to remain apparently
unaffected in a red-cedar chest from June of one year to May of the
following year, and then to transform normally to the adult stage. The
older larvæ of carpet beetles can be removed from clothing before it
is stored in chests by thorough brushing. It is valuable to know that
red-cedar chests will kill the very young larvæ. It should always be
remembered that articles such as balls of yarn, floor skins backed
with woolen cloth, pillows stuffed with hair or feathers, and similar
objects in the interior of which the older carpet-beetle larvæ can hide
should not be placed in cedar chests until fumigated to kill the larvæ
hidden where they can not be reached by brushing.

[11] _Juniperus virginiana._

[12] _Attagenus piceus._


COLD STORAGE.

One of the safest methods of preventing loss through carpet-beetle
attack is to store susceptible articles with a reliable cold-storage
firm maintaining rooms for such purposes at a temperature of 50° F. or
lower.


FUMIGATION.

Carpet beetles, as well as all other household pests, can be eliminated
as disturbing factors by fumigation within as short a time as three
or four hours (if necessary). Fumigation with formaldehyde candles,
although excellent for killing disease germs, is worthless for insect
control, and the public is warned accordingly. Sulphur fumes will kill
many carpet beetles, but very few persons succeed in killing all carpet
beetles with sulphur fumes. Sulphur should be burned at the rate of 13½
ounces per 1,000 cubic feet of space. It is likely to bleach wall paper
and fine fabrics and tarnish metals, and should never be used unless
one is aware of these possible bad results.

=Hydrocyanic-acid gas.=--Hydrocyanic-acid gas is the best gas known and
in present use for the fumigation of houses, or parts of houses, for
the speedy elimination of carpet beetles or other pests. When persons
are troubled with fabric pests that have become generally established
throughout the house, nothing will give greater satisfaction in peace
of mind and freedom from trouble than one thorough fumigation carried
on by a professional fumigator or by any intelligent, careful person
capable of following directions. Hydrocyanic-acid gas is dangerous
to human beings, but is noninflammable and nonexplosive as used in
household fumigation as here advocated. It is lighter than air, will
injure no fabric or painting, and will not tarnish household metals. If
properly used, it is one of the simplest and best methods of fighting
house pests. Interested persons can have full particulars free of cost
by writing the Division of Publications, Department of Agriculture, for
Farmers' Bulletin 699.

=Carbon disulphid.=--Carbon disulphid is a fumigant in general use
for killing insects of all sorts in containers that are reasonably
tight. It is excellent for killing carpet beetles in chests, trunks,
and closets that can be closed and sealed. It has been used for the
fumigation of entire buildings when these are detached. It is purchased
at drug stores or of chemical firms as a liquid put up in tin cans
containing 1, 2, 5, or 10 pounds each. Upon exposure to the air, the
liquid evaporates, forming a gas heavier than air which sinks through
the container being fumigated and kills the insects by suffocation.
The gas is explosive in the presence of fire, and must be handled with
the same care as gasoline or benzine. Although the liquid as purchased
is considered not explosive or inflammable, great care should be
exercised in storing and handling it since it is almost impossible
to dissociate it from its gas, which is, as stated above, decidedly
explosive and inflammable in the presence of fire. The odor of carbon
disulphid gas is very disagreeable, but soon disappears with the airing
of the container after fumigation. Carbon disulphid fumigation is
excellent for the destruction of carpet beetles in articles that can be
stored in trunks, chests, or closets, or for killing pests in pianos
and upholstered furniture that can be placed in a small room for the
period of fumigation. Full particulars regarding this fumigant and the
ease with which it can be used may be had by writing the Division of
Publications, Department of Agriculture, for Farmers' Bulletin 799.

=Carbon tetrachlorid.=--Carbon tetrachlorid is used in exactly the same
way and for the same purpose as carbon disulphid, except that from two
to three times as much of the liquid must be used to fumigate the same
amount of space. Carbon tetrachlorid is not a particularly effective
fumigant, but it has the advantage of producing, upon evaporation, a
gas that is noninflammable and nonexplosive, and for this reason can
be used in certain places where lighted lamps, fires, etc., can not be
entirely eliminated. See Farmers' Bulletin 799 for reference to use of
carbon tetrachlorid and carbon disulphid.


MISCELLANEOUS CONTROL MEASURES.

=Laundering and dry cleaning.=--When material infested with carpet
beetles is submerged in a solution of 1 pound of neutral soap to 10
gallons of water all stages of the beetles are killed. Carpet-beetle
larvæ are killed if subjected to temperatures of 120, 125, and 128°
F. for 30, 15, and 10 minutes, respectively. Eggs are killed when
subjected to temperatures of 125 and 130° F. for 16 and 11 minutes,
respectively Eggs and larvæ were killed in material dipped for 5 second
in water at 140° F., but submergence for the same period in water at
a temperature of 122° F. failed to kill all of them. Translated into
household terms this means that laundering clothing or other textiles
in thick suds or with water hotter than the hand can bear, or pressing
with a hot iron, will probably kill the larvæ and eggs of the carpet
beetle. The usual commercial dry-cleaning processes also are probably
effective. Unfortunately these methods are not always easily applied to
the articles most likely to be infested; they must not be considered a
preventive against reinfestation.

=Treatment of floor cracks and other hiding places.=--Carpet-beetle
larvæ often secrete themselves in the cracks of flooring, beneath
base boards, and in other openings about houses formed by the usual
shrinking or settling of woodwork. The larvæ feed upon the lint which
gathers in such places. It is, therefore, an excellent procedure to
have all such openings closed where possible by filling in with putty
or patented crack-fillers. Any cracks that can not be filled in this
manner should be periodically filled with gasoline, kerosene, or
benzine to kill larvæ. Since these liquids are inflammable, care must
be exercised not to have lighted lamps or fire in any form about until
after the rooms are well ventilated.


ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.


  _Secretary of Agriculture_                   Henry C. Wallace.
  _Assistant Secretary_                        C. W. Pugsley.
  _Director of Scientific Work_                E. D. Ball.
  _Director of Regulatory Work_
  _Weather Bureau_                             Charles F. Marvin, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Agricultural Economics_           Henry C. Taylor, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Animal Industry_                  John R. Mohler, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Plant Industry_                   William A. Taylor, _Chief_.
  _Forest Service_                             W. B. Greeley, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Chemistry_                        Walter G. Campbell, _Acting
                                                 Chief_.
  _Bureau of Soils_                            Milton Whitney, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Entomology_                       L. O. Howard, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Biological Survey_                E. W. Nelson, _Chief_.
  _Bureau of Public Roads_                     Thomas H. MacDonald,
                                                 _Chief_.
  _Fixed Nitrogen Research Laboratory_         F. G. Cottrell, _Director_.
  _Division of Accounts and Disbursements_     A. Zappone, _Chief_.
  _Division of Publications_                   Edwin C. Powell, _Acting
                                                 Chief_.
  _Library_                                    Claribel R. Barnett,
                                                 _Librarian_.
  _States Relations Service_                   A. C. True, _Director_.
  _Federal Horticultural Board_                C. L. Marlatt, _Chairman_.
  _Insecticide and Fungicide Board_            J. K. Haywood, _Chairman_.
  _Packers and Stockyards Administration_    { Chester Morrill, _Assistant
  _Grain Future Trading Act Administration_  {   to the Secretary_.
  _Office of the Solicitor_                    R. W. Williams, _Solicitor_.


This bulletin is a contribution from

  Bureau of Entomology                       L. O. Howard, _Chief_.
    Stored-Product Insect Investigations     E. A. Back, _Entomologist
                                               in Charge_.

                           ADDITIONAL COPIES
               OF THIS PUBLICATION HAY BE PROCURED FROM
                    THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
                      GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
                           WASHINGTON, D. C.
                                  AT

                           5 CENTS PER COPY

           PURCHASER AGREES NOT TO RESELL OR DISTRIBUTE THIS
         COPY FOR PROFIT.--PUB. RES. 57, APPROVED MAY 11, 1922

              [Illustration: Upside-down triangle &#9661;]


                           WASHINGTON: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1923



       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Notes


All illustrations were moved so as to not split paragraphs.








End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of USDA Farmers' Bulletin No. 1346:
Carpet Beetles and Their Control, by E. A. Back

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CARPET BEETLES AND THEIR CONTROL ***

***** This file should be named 59378-8.txt or 59378-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/3/7/59378/

Produced by Tom Cosmas compiled from images made available
by The Internet Archive.

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
