s abused
    Fanatic Egypt and her priests to seek
    Their wandering gods, disguised in brutish forms
    Rather than human."
                                    Milton.

=Ossa= (Osʹsa). One of the mountains of Thessaly (once the residence
of the centaurs) which the giants piled on the top of Mount Pelion to
enable them to ascend to heaven and attack the gods.

=Ox=, see Apis.

=Owl=, see Aesculapius and Itys.


=Pactolus= (Pactoʹlus). The river in Lydia where Midas washed himself
by order of Bacchus, and the sands were turned to gold.

=Paean= (Paeʹan). A name given Apollo, from _paean_, the hymn which
was sung in his honor after he had killed the serpent Python. Paeans
were solemn songs, praying either for the averting of evil and for
rescue, or giving thanks for help vouchsafed.

    "With hymns divine the joyous banquet ends,
    The Paeans lengthened till the sun descends."
                                    Pope.

=Palaemon= (Palaeʹmon), or Melicerta, a sea-god, son of Athamas and
Ino.

=Pales= (Paʹles). The goddess of shepherds and sheepfolds and
protectress of flocks; her festivals were called by the Romans
Palilia.

    "Pomona loves the orchard,
      And Liber loves the wine,
    And Pales loves the straw-built shed,
      Warm with the breath of kine."
                                    Macaulay.

    "Great Pales help, the pastoral rites I sing,
    With humble duty mentioning each thing."
                                    Pope.

=Palladium= (Pallaʹdium). A famous statue of the goddess Pallas
(Minerva). She is sitting with a spear in her right hand, and in her
left a distaff and spindle. Various accounts are given of the origin
of the statue. Some writers say that it fell from the skies. It was
supposed that the preservation of the statue would be the preservation
of Troy; and during the Trojan War the Greeks were greatly encouraged
when they became the possessors of it.

=Pallas= (Palʹlas), or Minerva. The name was given to Minerva when she
destroyed a famous giant named Pallas. The Greeks called their goddess
of wisdom Pallas Athene. See Minerva.

    "Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
    Inspire me that I may this treason find."
                                    Shakespeare.

  [Illustration: Iris
      _See page 73_]

=Pan.= The Arcadian god of shepherds, huntsmen, and country folk, and
chief of the inferior deities, is usually considered to have been the
son of Mercury and Penelope. After his birth he was metamorphosed
into the mythical form in which we find him depicted, namely, a
horned, long-eared man, with the lower half of the body like a goat.
He is generally seen playing a pipe made of reeds of various lengths,
which he invented himself, and from which he could produce music which
charmed even the gods. These are the Pan-pipes, or _Syrinx_. Pan's
terrific appearance once so frightened the Gauls when they invaded
Greece that they ran away though no one pursued them; and the word
_panic_ is said to have been derived from this episode. The Fauns, who
greatly resembled Pan, were his attendants.

    "Piping on their reeds the shepherds go,
    Nor fear an ambush, nor suspect a foe."
                                    Pope.

=Pandora= (Pandoʹra), according to Hesiod, was the first mortal
female. Vulcan made her of clay, and gave her life. Venus gave her
beauty; and the art of captivating was bestowed upon her by the
Graces. She was taught singing by Apollo, and Mercury taught her
oratory. Jupiter gave her a box, the famous "Pandora's Box," which she
was told to give to her husband, Epimetheus, brother of Prometheus. As
soon as he opened it there issued from it numberless diseases and
evils which were soon spread all over the world, and from that moment
they have afflicted the human race. It is said that Hope alone
remained in the box. Pandora means "the all-gifted."

    "More lovely than Pandora, whom the gods
    Endowed with all their gifts."
                                    Milton.

=Pantheon= (Pantheʹon) (lit. "the all-divine place"). The temple of
all the gods, built by Agrippa at Rome, in the reign of Augustus (B.C.
27). It was 144 feet in diameter, and 144 feet high; and was built in
the Corinthian style of architecture, mostly of marble; while its
walls were covered with engraved brass and silver. Its magnificence
induced Pliny to give it rank among the wonders of the world.

=Paphia= (Paʹphia), a name of Venus.

=Papremis= (Papʹremis). The Egyptian Mars.

=Parcae, The= (Parʹcae), were goddesses who presided over the destiny
of human beings. They were also called the Fates, and were three in
number, Atropos, Clotho, and Lachesis. See Fates.

=Paris= (Parʹis), the son of Priam, king of Troy, and of his mother
Hecuba. It had been predicted that he would be the cause of the
destruction of Troy, and his father therefore ordered him to be
strangled as soon as he was born; but the slave who had been entrusted
with this mission took the child to Mount Ida, and left it there. Some
shepherds, however, found the infant and took care of him. He lived
among them till he had grown to man's estate, and he then married
Oenone, a nymph of Ida. At the famous nuptial feast of Peleus and
Thetis, Discordia, who had not been invited, attended secretly; and
when all were assembled, she threw among the goddesses a golden apple,
on which was inscribed "Let the fairest take it." This occasioned a
great contention, for each thought herself the fairest. Ultimately,
the contestants were reduced to three, Juno, Pallas (Minerva), and
Venus; but Jove himself could not make these three agree, and it was
decided that Paris should be the umpire. He was sent for, and each of
the goddesses courted his favor by offering all sorts of bribes. Juno
offered him power, Pallas wisdom, and Venus promised him the most
beautiful woman in the world. Paris gave the golden apple to Venus.
Soon after this episode Priam owned Paris as his son, and sent him to
Greece to fetch Helen, who was renowned as being the most beautiful
woman in the world. She was the wife of Menelaus, king of Sparta; but
during his absence Paris carried Helen away to Troy, and this gave
rise to the celebrated war between the Greeks and the Trojans, which
ended in the destruction of Troy. Paris was among the 676,000 Trojans
who fell during or after the siege.

=Parnassides= (Parnasʹsides), a name common to the Muses, from Mount
Parnassus.

=Parnassus= (Parnasʹsus). The mountain of the Muses in Phocis, and
sacred to Apollo and Bacchus. Any one who slept on this mountain
became a poet. It was named after one of the sons of Bacchus.

=Parthenon= (Parʹthenon). The temple of Minerva (or Pallas) on the
Acropolis at Athens. It was destroyed by the Persians, and rebuilt by
Pericles.

=Parthenos= (Parʹthenos) was a name of Juno, and also of Minerva. See
Pallas.

=Pasiphae= (Pasiphʹae) was the reputed mother of the Minotaur killed
by Theseus. She was said to be the daughter of Sol and Perseis, and
her husband was Minos, king of Crete.

=Pasithea= (Pasithʹea). Sometimes there are _four_ Graces spoken of;
when this is so, the name of the fourth is Pasithea. Also called
Aglaia.

=Pavan= (Pavʹan), the Hindoo god of the winds.

=Peace=, see Concordia.

=Peacock=, see Argus.

=Pegasus= (Pegʹasus). The famous winged horse which was said to have
sprung from the blood of Medusa when her head was cut off by Perseus.
His abode was on Mount Helicon, where, by striking the ground with his
hoof, he caused water to spring forth, which formed the fountain
afterward called Hippocrene.

    "Each spurs his faded
      Pegasus apace."
                                    Byron.

    "Thy stumbling founder'd jade can trot as high
    As any other Pegasus can fly."
                                    Earl of Dorset.

    "To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus,
    And witch the world with noble horsemanship."
                                    Shakespeare.

=Peleus= (Peʹleus). A king of Thessaly, who married Thetis, one of the
Nereides. It is said that he was the only mortal who married an
immortal.

=Pelias= (Peʹlias). A son of Neptune and Tyro. He usurped the throne
of Cretheus, which Jason was persuaded to relinquish and take the
command of the Argonautic expedition. On the return of Jason, Medea,
the sorceress, undertook to restore Pelias to youth, but required that
the body should first be cut up and put in a caldron of boiling water.
When this had been done, Medea refused to fulfil her promise. Pelias
had four daughters, who were called the Peliades.

=Pelias= (Peʹlias) was the name of the spear of Achilles, which was so
large that none could wield it but the hero himself.

=Pelion= (Peʹlion). A well-wooded mountain, famous for the wars
between the giants and the gods, and as the abode of the Centaurs, who
were expelled by the Lapithae. See Ossa, a mount, which the giants
piled upon Pelion, to enable them to scale the heavens.

    "The gods they challenge, and affect the skies,
    Heaved on Olympus tottering Ossa stood;
    On Ossa, Pelion nods with all his wood."
                                    Pope.

=Pelops= (Peʹlops), son of Tantalus, king of Phrygia. His father
killed him, and served him up to be eaten at a feast given to the
gods, who, when they found out what the father of Pelops had done,
restored the son to life, and he afterward became the husband of
Hippodamia.

=Penates= (Penaʹtes). Roman domestic gods. The hearth of the house was
their altar. See Lares.

=Perpetual Punishment=, see Sisyphus.

=Persephone= (Persephʹone). The Greek name of Proserpine.

=Perseus= (Perʹseus) was a son of Jupiter and Danae, the daughter of
Acrisius. His first famous exploit was against the Gorgon, Medusa. He
was assisted in this enterprise by Pluto, who lent him a helmet which
would make him invisible. Pallas lent him her shield, and Mercury
supplied him with wings. He made a speedy conquest of the Gorgons, and
cut off Medusa's head, with which he flew through the air, and from
the blood sprang the winged horse Pegasus. As he flew along he saw
Andromeda chained to the rock, and a sea-monster ready to devour her.
He killed the monster, and married Andromeda. When he got back, he
showed the Gorgon's head to King Polydectes, and the monarch was
immediately turned into stone.

    "Now on Daedalian waxen pinions stray,
    Or those which wafted Perseus on his way."
                                    F. Lewis.

=Persuasion=, goddess of, see Pitho.

=Phaeton= (Phaʹeton). A son of Sol, or, according to many
mythologists, of Phoebus and Clymene. Anxious to display his skill in
horsemanship, he was allowed to drive the chariot of the sun for one
day. The horses soon found out the incapacity of the charioteer,
became unmanageable, and overturned the chariot. There was such great
fear of injury to heaven and earth, that Jove, to stop the
destruction, killed Phaeton with a thunderbolt.

    "Now Phaeton, by lofty hopes possessed,
    The burning seat with youthful vigor pressed."

    "The breathless Phaeton, with flaming hair,
    Shot from the chariot like a falling star
    That in a summer's evening from the top
    Of heaven drops down, or seems at least to drop."
                                    Addison.

=Phaon= (Phaʹon). A boatman of Mitylene, in Lesbos, who received from
Venus a box of ointment, with which, when he anointed himself, he grew
so beautiful that Sappho became enamored of him; but when the ointment
had all been used Phaon returned to his former condition, and Sappho,
in despair, drowned herself.

=Pheasant=, see Itys.

=Philoctetes= (Philoctʹetes) was son of Poeas, and one of the
companions of Jason on his Argonautic expedition. He was present at
the death of Hercules, and received from him the poisoned arrows which
had been dipped in the blood of Hydra. These arrows, an oracle
declared, were necessary to be used in the destruction of Troy, and
Philoctetes was persuaded by Ulysses to go and assist at the siege.
He appears to have used the weapons with great dexterity and with
wonderful effect, for Paris was among the heroes whom he killed. The
story of Philoctetes was dramatized by the Greek tragedians Aeschylus,
Euripides, and Sophocles.

=Philomela= (Philomeʹla) was a daughter of Pandion, king of Athens,
who was transformed into a nightingale. She was sister to Procne, who
married Tereus, King of Thrace. The latter having offered violence to
Philomela, her sister, Procne, came to her rescue, and to punish her
husband slew her son Itylus, and at a feast Philomela threw Itylus's
head on the banquet table.

    "Forth like a fury Philomela flew,
    And at his face the head of Itys threw."
                                    Pope.

    "And thou, melodious Philomel,
    Again thy plaintive story tell."
                                    Sir Thomas Lyttleton.

=Phlegethon= (Phlegʹethon). A river of fire in the infernal regions.
It was the picture of desolation, for nothing could grow on its
parched and withered banks. Also called Pyriphlegethon.

        "... Infernal rivers ...
      ... Fierce Phlegethon,
    Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage."
                                    Milton.

=Phlegon= (Phleʹgon) (burning), one of the four chariot horses of Sol.

=Phlegyas= (Phleʹgyas). Son of Mars and father of Ixion and Coronis.
For his impiety in desecrating and plundering the temple of Apollo at
Delphi, he was sent to Hades, and there was made to sit with a huge
stone suspended over his head, ready to be dropped on him at any
moment.

=Phoebus= (Phoeʹbus). A name of Apollo, signifying light and life.

    "Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
    Toward Phoebus' lodging."
                                    Shakespeare.

=Phorcus= (Phorʹcus), or =Porcys=. A son of Neptune, father of the
Gorgons. The same as Oceanus.

=Phryxus= (Phryxʹus), see Golden Fleece.

=Picumnus= (Picumʹnus). A rural divinity, who presided over the
manuring of lands, also called Sterentius.

=Picus= (Piʹcus). A son of Saturn, father of Faunus, was turned into a
woodpecker by Circe, whose love he had not requited.

=Pierides= (Pierʹides). A name of the Muses, derived from Pieria, a
fountain in Thessaly, near Mount Olympus, where they were supposed to
have been born. Also, the daughters of Pierus, a king of Macedonia,
who settled in Boeotia. They challenged the Muses to sing, and were
changed into magpies.

=Pietas= (Pieʹtas). The Roman goddess of domestic affection.

=Pillar=, see Calpe.

=Pilumnus= (Pilumʹnus). A rural divinity that presided over the corn
while it was being ground. At Rome he was hence called the god of
bakers.

=Pine-Tree=, see Atys.

=Pirithous= (Pirithʹous). A son of Ixion and great friend of Theseus,
king of Athens. The marriage of Pirithous and Hippodamia became famous
for the quarrel between the drunken Centaurs and the Lapithae, who,
with the help of Theseus, Pirithous, and Hercules, attacked and
overcame the Centaurs, many of whom were killed, and the remainder
took to flight.

=Pitho= (Piʹtho), the goddess of Persuasion, daughter of Mercury and
Venus. She is sometimes referred to under the name of Suada.

=Plants=, see Demogorgon.

=Pleasure=, see Rembha.

=Pleiades, The= (Pleiʹades). Seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione.
Their names were Electra, Alcyone, Celaeno, Maia, Sterope, Taygete,
and Merope. They were made a constellation, but as there are only six
stars to be seen, the ancients believed that one of the sisters,
Merope, married a mortal, and was ashamed to show herself among her
sisters, who had all been married to gods.

                            "... The gray
    Dawn and the Pleiades before him danced.
    Shedding sweet influence."
                                    Milton.

=Pluto= (Pluʹto). King of the infernal regions. He was a son of Saturn
and Ops, and husband of Proserpine, daughter of Ceres. He is
sometimes referred to under the name Dis, and he personifies hell. His
principal attendant was the three-headed dog Cerberus, and about his
throne were the Eumenides, the Harpies, and the Furies.

    "With equal foot, rich friend, impartial fate
    Knocks at the cottage and the palace gate.
        .  .  .  .  .
    Night soon will seize, and you must go below,
    To story'd ghosts and Pluto's house below."
                                    Creech.

=Plutus= (Pluʹtus), the god of riches, was son of Jasion or Iasius and
Ceres (Demeter), the goddess of corn. He is described as being blind
and lame; blind because he so often injudiciously bestows his riches,
and lame because fortunes come so slowly.

=Pluvius= (Pluʹvius). A name of Jupiter, because he had the rain in
his control.

=Podalirius= (Podalirʹius). A famous surgeon, a son of Aesculapius and
Epione. His skill in medicine made him very serviceable among the
soldiers in the Trojan war.

=Poet=, see Parnassus.

=Poetry=, see Apollo, Calliope, The Muses.

=Poisonous Herbs=, see Circe.

=Poisonous Lake=, see Avernus.

=Pollear= (Pollʹear). Son of Siva, the Hindoo god of wisdom.

=Pollux= (Polʹlux). Twin brother of Castor. Their father was Jupiter
and their mother Leda. He and his brother form the constellation
Gemini. His Greek name was Polydeuces. Castor and Pollux are also
known under the name of Dioscuri, the presiding deities of public
games in Rome, Castor being the god of equestrian exercise, and Pollux
the god of boxing. See Aedepol.

=Polybotes= (Polyboʹtes). One of the giants who made war against
Jupiter. He was killed by Neptune.

=Polydectes= (Polydecʹtes) was turned into stone when Perseus showed
him Medusa's head. See Perseus.

=Polydeuces= (Polydeuʹces). The Greek name of Pollux.

=Polyhymnia= (Polyhymʹnia). Daughter of Jupiter and Mnemosyne. One of
the Muses who presided over singing and rhetoric.

=Polyphemus= (Polypheʹmus), one of the most celebrated of the Cyclops,
a son of the nymph Thoosa and Neptune, or Poseidon, as the Greeks
called the god of the sea. He captured Ulysses and twelve of his
companions, and it is said that six of them were eaten. The remainder
escaped by the ingenuity of Ulysses, who destroyed Polyphemus's one
eye with a fire-brand.

    "Charybdis barks and Polyphemus roars."
                                    Francis.

=Polyxena= (Polyxʹena). Daughter of Hecuba and Priam, king of Troy. It
was by her treachery that Achilles was shot in the heel.

  [Illustration: Laocoon
      _See page 79_]

=Pomona= (Pomoʹna). The Roman goddess of fruit-trees and gardens.

                      "So to the sylvan lodge
    They came, that like Pomona's arbor smiled
    With flowerets decked and fragrant smells."
                                    Milton.

=Poplar-Tree=, see Heliades.

=Portunus= (Portuʹnus) (Palaemon), son of Ino, was the Roman god of
harbors.

=Poseidon= (Poseiʹdon). The Greek name of Neptune, god of the sea.

=Pracriti= (Pracʹriti). The Hindoo goddess of nature.

=Predictions=, see Cassandra.

=Priam= (Priʹam). The last king of Troy. See Paris.

=Priapus= (Priaʹpus), the guardian of gardens and god of natural
reproduction, was the son of Venus and Bacchus.

    "Priapus could not half describe the grace
    (Though god of gardens) of this charming place."
                                    Pope.

=Prisca= (Prisʹca). Another name of Vesta.

=Procris= (Proʹcris). Daughter of Erechtheus, king of Athens. See
Cephalus, her husband.

=Progne= (Progʹne), wife of Tereus. Commonly called Procne, whose
sister was Philomela. See Itys and Tereus.

    "Complaining oft gives respite to our grief,
    From hence the wretched Progne sought relief."
                                    F. Lewis.

=Prometheus= (Promeʹtheus), the son of Japetus and father of
Deucalion. He presumed to make clay men, and animate them with fire
which he had stolen from heaven. This so displeased Jupiter that he
sent him a box full of evils, which Prometheus refused; but his
brother Epimetheus, not so cautious, opened it, and the evils spread
over all the earth. Jupiter then punished Prometheus by commanding
Mercury to bind him to Mount Caucasus, where a vulture daily preyed
upon his liver, which grew in the night as much as it had been reduced
in the day, so that the punishment was a prolonged torture. Hercules
at last killed the vulture and set Prometheus free.

=Prophecy=, see Nereus.

=Proserpine= (Proserʹpine). A daughter of Jupiter and Ceres. Pluto
carried her off to the infernal regions and made her his wife. She was
known by the names of "the Queen of Hell," Hecate, Juno Inferna, and
Libitina. She was called by the Greeks Persephone.

    "He sung, and hell consented
      To hear the poet's prayer,
    Stern Proserpine relented,
      And gave him back the fair."
                                    F. Lewis.

=Proteus= (Proʹteus). A marine deity, who could foretell events and
convert himself at will into all sorts of shapes. According to later
legends, Proteus was a son of Poseidon.

    "The changeful Proteus, whose prophetic mind,
    The secret cause of Bacchus' rage divined."
                                    The Lusiad.

    "What chain can hold this varying Proteus fast?"
                                    Budgell.

=Psyche= (Psyʹche). The wife of Cupid. The name is Greek, signifying
the soul or spirit.

=Pygmalion= (Pygmaʹlion). A famous sculptor who had resolved to remain
unmarried, but he made such a beautiful statue of a goddess that he
begged Venus to give it life. His request being granted, Pygmalion
married the animated statue.

    "Few, like Pygmalion, doat on lifeless charms,
    Or care to clasp a statue in their arms."

=Pylades= (Pyʹlades). The son of Strophius, King of Phanote, and
husband of Electra; famous on account of his faithful friendship with
Orestes.

                            "His wine
    Was better, Pylades, than thine.
                        ... If you please
    To choose me for your Pylades."
                                    F. Lewis.

=Pylotis= (Pyloʹtis). A Greek name of Minerva.

=Pyracmon= (Pyrʹacmon), one of the chiefs of the Cyclopes.

=Pyramus and Thisbe= (Pyrʹamus and Thisʹbe). Two Babylonian lovers,
the children of hostile neighbors. See Shakespeare's burlesque of the
story of their loves, in "Midsummer Night's Dream."

=Pyrois= (Pyʹrois) (luminous). One of the four chariot horses of Sol,
the Sun.

=Pythia= (Pyʹthia). The priestess of Apollo at Delphi, who delivered
the answers of the oracle. Also the name of the Pythian games
celebrated in honor of Apollo's victory over the dragon Python.

=Python= (Pyʹthon). A famous serpent killed by Apollo, which haunted
the caves of Parnassus. See Septerion.


=Quadratus= (Quadraʹtus). A surname given to Mercury, because some of
his statues were four-sided.

=Quadrifrons= (Quadʹrifrons). Janus was sometimes depicted with four
faces instead of the usual two, and he was then called Janus
Quadrifrons.

=Quies= (Quiʹes). The Roman goddess of rest; she had a temple just
outside the Colline gate of Rome.

=Quietus= (Quieʹtus). One of the names of Pluto.

=Quirinus= (Quiriʹnus). A name given to Mars during wartime; Virgil
refers to Jupiter under the same name.

=Quoit=, see Hyacinthus.


=Race=, see Atalanta.

=Radamanthus= (Radamanʹthus), see Rhadamanthus.

=Rage=, see Furies.

=Rainbow=, see Iris.

=Rama= (Raʹma). A Hindoo god, who was the terrestrial representative
of Vishnu.

=Ram's Hide=, see Golden Fleece.

=Reeds=, see Pan, also Syrinx.

=Rembha= (Remʹbha). The Hindoo goddess of pleasure.

=Reproduction=, see Priapus.

=Rest=, see Quies.

=Revenge=, see Ate.

=Rhadamanthus= (Rhadamanʹthus), a son of Jupiter and Europa, was the
ruler of the Greeks in the Asiatic islands, and judge of the dead in
the infernal regions.

    "These are the realms of unrelenting fate:
    And awful Rhadamanthus rules the state.
    He hears and judges each committed crime,
    Inquires into the manner, place, and time;
    The conscious wretch must all his acts reveal,
    Loth to confess, unable to conceal;
    From the first moment of his vital breath,
    To the last hour of unrepenting death."
                                    Dryden.

=Rhamnusia= (Rhamnuʹsia). A name of Nemesis, from Rhamnus, a town in
Attica, where she had a temple in which was her statue, made of one
stone ten cubits high.

=Rhea= (Rheʹa). The Greek name of Cybele. She was a daughter of Uranus
and Gaea, and was called Mother of the gods.

=Rhetoric=, see Calliope, also Polyhymnia.

=Riches=, see Plutus.

=Riddle=, see Sphinx.

=Rimmon= (Rimʹmon). A Phrygian god of whom Milton says--

    "... Rimmon, whose delightful seat
    Was fair Damascus, on the fertile banks
    Of Abana and Pharpar, lucid streams."

=Riot=, see Saturnalia.

=River of Fire=, see Phlegethon.

=Roads=, see Vialis.

=Robber=, see Cacus, Coeculus.

=Romulus= (Romʹulus). The traditional founder of Rome. He was a son
of Mars and Ilia, and twin brother of Remus. The infants were thrown
into the Tiber, but were miraculously saved and suckled by a she-wolf,
till they were found by Faustulus, a shepherd, who brought them up.
Remus was killed in a quarrel with his brother, and Romulus became the
first King of Rome.

=Rumia Dea= (Rumiʹa Dea). The Roman goddess of babes in arms.

=Rumina= (Ruʹmina). Roman pastoral deities, who protected suckling
cattle.

=Runcina= (Runciʹna). The goddess of weeding or cleansing the ground.


=Sacrifices= were ceremonious offerings made to the gods. To every
deity a distinct victim was allotted, and the greatest care was always
taken in the selection of them. Anything in any way blemished was
considered as an insult to the god. At the time of the sacrifice the
people were called together by heralds led by a procession of
musicians. The priest, clothed in white, was crowned with a wreath
made of the leaves of the tree which was sacred to the particular god
to whom the sacrifice was offered. The victim had its horns gilt, and
was adorned with a chaplet similar to that of the priest, and was
decorated with bright-colored ribbons. The priest then said, "Who is
here?" to which the spectators replied, "Many good people." "Begone
all ye who are profane," said the priest; and he then began a prayer
addressed to all the gods. The sacrifice was begun by putting corn,
frankincense, flour, salt, cakes, and fruit on the head of the victim.
This was called the Immolation. The priest then took a cup of wine,
tasted it, and handed it to the bystanders to taste also; some of it
was then poured between the horns of the victim, and a few of the
saturated hairs were pulled off and put in the fire which was burning
on the altar. Then, turning to the east, the priest drew with his
knife a crooked line along the back of the beast from the head to the
tail, and told the assistants to kill the animal. This was done
directly, and the entrails of the victim taken out and carefully
examined by the Haruspices to find out what was prognosticated. The
carcase was then divided, and the thighs, covered with fat, were put
in the fire, and the rest of the animal was cut up, cooked, and eaten.
This feast was celebrated with dancing, music, and hymns, in praise of
the god in whose honor the sacrifice was made. On great occasions as
many as a hundred bullocks were offered at one time; and it is said
that Pythagoras made this offering when he found out the demonstration
of the forty-seventh proposition of the book of Euclid.

=Saga= (Saʹga). The Scandinavian goddess of history. The word means a
_saw_ or saying; hence Sagas, which embody Scandinavian legends, and
heroic or mythical traditions.

=Sagittarius= (Sagittaʹrius), see Chiron.

=Sails=, see Daedalus.

=Salamanders= (Salʹamanʹders). The genii who, according to Plato,
lived in fire.

    "The spirits of fiery termagants in flame,
    Mount up and take a Salamander's name."
                                    Pope.

=Salatia= (Salaʹtia), or Salacia, a Roman goddess of the salt water.
See Amphitrite.

=Salii= (Salʹii). The priests of Mars who had charge of the sacred
shields.

=Salmoneus= (Salmoʹneus). A king of Elis who, for trying to imitate
Jupiter's thunders, was sent by the god straight to the infernal
regions.

=Salus= (Saʹlus). The Roman goddess of health.

=Sappho= (Sapʹpho), a celebrated poetess, a native of Lesbos, who
flourished in the seventh century B.C. Her only connection with the
goddesses of the time is that the Greeks called her "The tenth Muse."

=Sarcasm=, see Momus.

=Saron= (Saʹron), a sea-god.

=Sarpedon= (Sarpeʹdon), son of Jupiter by Europa. He accompanied
Glaucus, when the latter set out to assist Priam against the Greeks in
the Trojan War. He was slain by Patroclus.

=Saturn= (Satʹurn), king of the Universe, was father of Jupiter,
Neptune, and Pluto. These gods quarreled amongst themselves as to the
division of their father's kingdom, which ended in Jupiter having
heaven and earth, Neptune the sea, and Pluto the infernal regions.

=Saturnalia= (Saturnaʹlia). Festivals held in honor of Saturn about
the 16th or 18th of December. Principally famous for the riotous
disorder which generally attended them.

=Saturnius= (Saturʹnius). A name given to Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto,
as sons of Saturn.

=Satyavrata= (Satyaʹvraʹta). The Hindoo god of law. The same as Menu.

=Satyrs= (Satʹyrs). Spirits of the woodland, half men, half goats, and
fond of wine and women. They were the attendants of Dionysus, and were
similar in most respects to the fauns who attended Pan. See Silenus.

    "Five satyrs of the woodland sort.
      .  .  .  .  .  .
    With asses' hoofs, great goggle eyes,
    And double chins of monstrous size."
                                    Yalden.

=Scylla= (Scylʹla). A beautiful nymph who excited the jealousy of
Neptune's wife, Amphitrite, and was changed by the goddess into a
frightful sea-monster, which had six fearfully ugly heads and necks,
and which, rising unexpectedly from the deep, used to take off as many
as six sailors from a vessel, and carry them to the bottom of the
sea. An alternative danger with the whirlpool, Charybdis, which
threatened destruction to all mariners.

    "There on the right her dogs foul Scylla hides,
    Charybdis roaring on the left presides."
                                    Virgil.

=Scylla= (Scylʹla). A daughter of Nysus, who was changed into a lark
for cutting off a charmed lock of her father's hair. See Nysus.

=Sea=, see Neptune.

=Seasons=, see Vertumnus.

=Sea-Weed=, see Glaucus.

=Segetia= (Segeʹtia). A rural divinity who protected corn during
harvest-time.

=Sem.= The Egyptian Hercules.

=Semele= (Semʹele), daughter of Cadmus and the mother of Bacchus
(Dionysus), who was born in a miraculous manner after Jupiter had
visited her, at her special request, in all his terrible splendor. She
was deified after her death, and named Thyone.

=Semi-Dei= were the demi-gods.

=Semones= (Semoʹnes). Roman gods of a class between the "immortal" and
the "mortal," such as the Satyrs and Fauns.

=Septerion= (Septeʹrion). A festival held every nine years at Delphi
in honor of Apollo, at which the victory of that god over the Python
was grandly represented.

=Serapis= (Seraʹpis). The Egyptian Jupiter, and generally considered
to be the same as Osiris. See Apis.

=Serpent.= The Greeks and Romans considered the serpent as symbolical
of guardian spirits, and as such were often engraved on their altars.
See Aesculapius, Apollo, Chimaera, Eurydice, and Medusa.

                    "Pleasing was his shape,
    And lovely; never since of serpent kind,
    Lovelier; not those that in Illyria changed
    Hermione and Cadmus, or the god
    In Epidaurus, nor to which transformed
    Ammonian Jove, or Capitoline, was seen."
                                    Milton.

=Seshanaga= (Seshʹanagʹa). The Egyptian Pluto.

=Sewers=, see Cloacina.

=Sharp-sightedness=, see Lynceus.

=Shepherds=, see Pan.

=Shields=, see Ancilia.

=Ships=, see Neptune.

=Silence=, see Harpocrates and Tacita.

=Silenus= (Sileʹnus). A Bacchanalian demi-god, the chief of the
Satyrs. He is generally represented as a fat, drunken old man, riding
on an ass, and crowned with flowers.

    "And there two Satyrs on the ground,
    Stretched at his ease, their sire Silenus found."

=Singing=, see Polyhymnia, Thamyris.

=Sirens, The= (Siʹrens). Sea nymphs, who by their music allured
mariners to destruction. To avoid the snare when nearing their abode,
Ulysses had the ears of his companions stopped with wax, and had
himself tied to the mast of his ship. They thus sailed past in safety;
but the Sirens, thinking that their charms had lost their powers,
drowned themselves.

=Sisyphus= (Sisʹyphus), son of Aeolus and Enaretta. He was condemned
to roll a stone to the top of a hill in the infernal regions, and as
it rolled down again when he reached the summit, his punishment was
perpetual.

    "I turned my eye, and as I turned, surveyed
    A mournful vision! The Sisyphian shade.
    With many a weary step and many a groan,
    Up the high hill he leaves a huge round stone,
    The huge round stone, resulting with a bound
    Thunders impetuous down, and smokes along the ground."
                                    Pope.

    "Thy stone, O Sisyphus, stands still
    Ixion rests upon his wheel,
      And the pale specters dance."
                                    F. Lewis.

=Siva= (Siʹva). In Hindoo mythology the "changer of form." He is
usually spoken of as the "Destroyer and Regenerator."

=Slaughter=, see Furies.

=Slaves=, see Feronia.

=Sleep=, see Caduceus, Morpheus, and Somnus.

=Sleipner= (Sleipʹner). The eight-legged horse of Odin, the chief of
the Scandinavian gods.

  [Illustration: Winged Mercury
      _See page 86_]

=Sol.= The sun. The worship of the god Sol is the oldest on record,
and though he is sometimes referred to as being the same as the god
Apollo, there is no doubt he was worshiped by the Egyptians, Persians,
and other nations long before the Apollo of the Greeks was heard of.
See Surya.

    "Sol through white curtains shot a timorous ray,
    And oped those eyes that must eclipse the day."
                                    Pope.

=Somnus= (Somʹnus). The Roman god of sleep, son of Erebus and Nox
(Night). He was one of the infernal deities, and resided in a gloomy
cave, void of light and air.

=Sospita= (Sosʹpita). A name of Juno, as the safeguard of women. She
is called the "saving goddess."

=Soter= (Soʹter). A Greek name of Jupiter, meaning Savior or
deliverer.

=Soul=, see Psyche.

=South Wind=, see Auster.

=Spear=, see Pelias.

=Sphinx, The.= A monster having the head and breast of a woman, the
body of a dog, the tail of a serpent, the wings of a bird, the paws of
a lion, and a human voice. She lived in the country near Thebes, and
proposed to every passer-by the following enigma: "What animal is that
which walks on four legs in the morning, two at noon, and three in the
evening." Oedipus solved the riddle thus: Man is the animal; for, when
an infant he crawls on his hands and feet, in the noontide of life he
walks erect, and as the evening of his existence sets in, he supports
himself with a stick. When the Sphinx found her riddle solved she
destroyed herself.

=Spider=, see Arachne.

=Spindle=, see Pallas.

=Spinning=, see Arachne, Ergatis.

=Spring=, see Vertumnus.

=Stable=, see Augaeas.

=Stars=, see Aurora.

=Sterentius= (Sterenʹtius). The Roman god who invented the art of
manuring lands. See also Picumnus.

=Steropes= (Sterʹopes). One of the Cyclopes.

=Stone=, see Medusa and Phlegyas.

=Stone= (rolling), see Sisyphus.

=Streets=, see Apollo.

=Stymphalides= (Stymʹphaliʹdes). The carnivorous birds destroyed in
the sixth labor of Hercules.

=Styx.= A noted river of hell, which was held in such high esteem by
the gods that they always swore "By the Styx," and such an oath was
never violated. The river has to be crossed in passing to the regions
of the dead. See Achilles and Thetis.

    "To seal his sacred vow by Styx he swore:--
    The lake with liquid pitch,--the dreary shore."
                                    Dryden.

            "... Infernal rivers that disgorge
    Into the burning lake their baleful streams,
    Abhorrèd Styx, the flood of deadly hate."

=Suada= (Suaʹda), the goddess of Persuasion. See Pitho.

=Success=, see Bonus Eventus.

=Sun=, see Aurora, Belus, Sol, and Surya.

=Sunflower=, see Clytie.

=Suradevi= (Suraʹdeʹvi). The Hindoo goddess of wine.

=Surgeon= (Surʹgeon), see Podalirius.

=Surya= (Suʹryʹa). The Hindoo god corresponding to the Roman Sol, the
sun.

=Swallow=, see Itys.

=Swan=, see Cygnus and Leda.

=Swiftness=, see Atalanta.

=Swine=, see Circe.

=Sylphs.= Genii who, according to Plato, lived in the air.

    "The light coquettes as Sylphs aloft repair,
    And sport and flutter in the fields of air."
                                    Pope.

=Sylvester= (Sylvesʹter). The name of Mars when he was invoked to
protect cultivated land from the ravages of war.

=Syrinx.= The name of the nymph who, to escape from the importunities
of Pan, was by Diana changed into reeds, out of which he made his
celebrated pipes, and named them "The Syrinx."


=Tacita= (Tacʹita). The goddess of Silence. See Harpocrates, also
Horus.

=Tantalus= (Tanʹtalus). Father of Niobe and Pelops, who, as a
punishment for serving up his son Pelops as meat at a feast given to
the gods, was placed in a pool of water in the infernal regions; but
the waters receded from him whenever he attempted to quench his
burning thirst. Hence the word "tantalizing".

Speaking of this god, Homer's Ulysses says: "I saw the severe
punishment of Tantalus. In a lake, whose waters approached to his
lips, he stood burning with thirst, without the power to drink.
Whenever he inclined his head to the stream, some deity commanded it
to be dry, and the dark earth appeared at his feet. Around him lofty
trees spread their fruits to view; the pear, the pomegranate, and the
apple, the green olive, and the luscious fig quivered before him,
which, whenever he extended his hand to seize them, were snatched by
the winds into clouds and obscurity."

    "There, Tantalus, along the Stygian bound,
    Pours out deep groans,--his groans through hell resound.
    E'en in the circling flood refreshment craves
    And pines with thirst amidst a sea of waves."

                "... And of itself the water flies
    All taste of living wight, as once it fled
    The lip of Tantalus."
                                    Milton.

=Tartarus= (Tarʹtarus). An inner region of hell, to which the gods
sent the exceptionally depraved.

=Telchines= (Telchiʹnes). People of Rhodes, who were envious sorcerers
and magicians.

=Tellus= (Telʹlus). A name of Cybele, wife of Saturn, and the Roman
deity of mother-earth.

=Tempests=, see Fro.

=Temple.= An edifice erected to the honor of a god or goddess in which
the sacrifices were offered.

=Tenth Muse.= Sappho was so called.

=Tereus= (Terʹeus) was a son of Mars. He married Procne, daughter of
the king of Athens, but became enamored of her sister Philomela, who,
however, resented his attentions, which so enraged him that he cut out
her tongue. When Procne heard of her husband's unfaithfulness she took
a terrible revenge (see Itys). Procne was turned into a swallow,
Philomela into a nightingale, Itys into a pheasant, and Tereus into a
hoopoe, a kind of vulture, some say an owl.

=Tergemina= (Tergemiʹna). A name of Diana, alluding to her triform
divinity as goddess of heaven, earth, and hell.

=Terminus= (Terʹminus). The Roman god of boundaries.

=Terpsichore= (Terpsichʹore). One of the nine Muses; she presided over
dancing.

=Terra.= The Earth; one of the most ancient of the Grecian goddesses.

=Thalestris= (Thalesʹtris). A queen of the Amazons.

=Thalia= (Thaliʹa). One of the nine Muses; she presided over
festivals, pastoral poetry and comedy.

=Thalia= (Thaliʹa). One of the Graces. (See Charities).

=Thamyris= (Thamʹyris). A skilful singer, who presumed to challenge
the Muses to sing, upon condition that if he did not sing best they
might inflict any penalty they pleased. He was, of course, defeated,
and the Muses made him blind.

=Theia= (Theʹia) or =Thea=. A daughter of Uranus and Terra, wife of
Hyperion.

=Themis= (Theʹmis), a daughter of Coelus and Terra, and wife of
Jupiter, was the Roman goddess of laws, ceremonies, and oracles.

=Theseus= (Theʹseus). One of the most famous of the Greek heroes. He
was a son of Aegeus, king of Athens. He rid Attica of Procrustes and
other evil-doers, slew the Minotaur, conquered the Amazons and married
their Queen.

    "Breasts that with sympathizing ardor glowed,
    And holy friendship such as Theseus vowed."
                                    Budgell.

=Thesmorphonis= (Thesmorphoʹnis). A name of Ceres.

=Thetis= (Theʹtis). A sea-goddess, daughter of Nereus and Doris. Her
husband was Peleus, king of Thessaly, and she was the mother of the
famous Achilles, whom she rendered all but invulnerable by dipping him
into the River Styx. See Achilles.

=Thief=, see Laverna, Mercury.

=Thor.= The Scandinavian war-god (son of Odin), who had rule over the
aerial regions, and, like Jupiter, hurled thunder against his foes.

=Thor's Belt= is a girdle which doubles his strength whenever the
war-god puts it on.

=Thoth.= The Mercury of the Egyptians.

=Thread of Life=, see Fates.

=Thunderbolts=, see Cyclops.

=Thunderer, The=, Jupiter. See Tonitrualis.

    "O king of gods and men, whose awful hand
    Disperses thunder on the seas and land,
    Disposing all with absolute command."
                                    Virgil.

    "The eternal Thunderer sat enthroned in gold."
                                    Homer.

    "So when thick clouds enwrap the mountain's head,
    O'er heaven's expanse like one black ceiling spread;
    Sudden the Thunderer, with flashing ray,
    Bursts through the darkness and lets down the day."
                                    Pope.

=Thya= (Thyʹa), a name of Ops.

=Thyades= (Thyaʹdes). Priestesses of Bacchus, who ran wild in the
hills, wearing tiger-skins and carrying torches.

=Thyrsus= (Thyrʹsus), a kind of javelin or staff carried by Dionysus
and his attendants. It was usually wreathed with ivy and topped by a
pine-cone. See Bacchus.

=Tides=, see Narayan.

=Time= (or Saturn). The husband of Virtue and father of Truth.

=Tisiphone= (Tis-iphʹone). One of the Furies, daughter of Nox and
Acheron, who was the minister of divine vengeance upon mankind.

=Titan= (Tiʹtan). Elder brother of Saturn, who made war against him,
and was ultimately vanquished by Jupiter.

=Titans= (Tiʹtans) were the supporters of Titan in his war against
Saturn and Jupiter. They were the sons of Uranus and Gaea, men of
gigantic stature and of great strength. Hence our English word
_Titanic_.

=Tithonus= (Ti-thoʹnus). The husband of Aurora. At the request of his
wife the gods granted him immortality, but she forgot at the same time
to ask that he should be granted perpetual youth. The consequence was
that Tithonus grew old and decrepit, while Aurora remained as fresh as
the morning. The gods, however, changed him into a grasshopper, which
is supposed to moult as it gets old, and grows young again.

=Tityus= (Titʹyus). A son of Jupiter. A giant who was thrown into the
innermost hell for insulting Diana. He, like Prometheus, has a vulture
constantly feeding on his ever-growing liver, the liver being supposed
to be the seat of the passions.

=Toil=, see Atlas.

=Tombs=, see Manes.

=Tongue=, see Tereus.

=Tonitrualis= (Tonitruaʹlis), or Tonans. The Thunderer; a name of
Jupiter.

=Towers=, see Cybele.

=Tragedy=, see Melpomene.

=Trees=, see Aristaeus.

=Tribulation=, see Echidna.

=Triformis= (Triforʹmis), see Tergemina.

=Triptolemus= (Triptolʹemus). A son of Oceanus and Terra. He was a
great favorite of the goddess Ceres, who cured him of a dangerous
illness when he was young, and afterwards taught him agriculture. She
gave him her chariot, which was drawn by dragons, in which he carried
seed-corn to all the inhabitants of the earth, and communicated the
knowledge given to him by Ceres. Cicero mentions a Triptolemus as the
fourth judge of the dead.

    "Triptolemus, whose useful cares intend
    The common good."
                                    Pope.

=Triterica= (Triteriʹca). Bacchanalian festivals.

=Tritons= (Triʹtons) were sons of Triton, a son of Neptune and
Amphitrite. They were the trumpeters of the sea-gods, and were
depicted as a sort of mermen--the upper half of the body being like a
man, and the lower half like dolphins.

=Trivia= (Triʹvia). A surname given to Diana, because she presided
over all places where three roads meet.

=Trophonius= (Trophoʹnius). A legendary hero of architecture, and one
of Jupiter's most famous oracles.

=Troy.= The classic poets say that the walls of this famous city were
built by the magic sound of Apollo's lyre. See Dardanus, Helen,
Hercules, Paris.

=Trumpeters=, see Tritons.

=Truth.= A daughter of Time, because Truth is discovered in the
course of Time. Democritus says that Truth lies hidden at the bottom
of a well.

=Tutelina= (Tutelʹina). A rural divinity--the goddess of granaries.

=Two Faces=, see Janus.

=Typhoeus= (Typhoeʹus), see Typhon.

=Typhon= (Tyʹphon). A monster with a hundred heads who made war
against the gods, but was crushed by Jove's thunderbolts, and
imprisoned under Mount Etna.

    "... Typhon huge, ending in snaky twine."
                                    Milton.

=Typhon= (Tyʹphon). In Egyptian mythology the god who tried to undo
all the good work effected by Osiris. According to the Greek writer,
Hesiod, Typhon or Typhoeus was a monster giant, son of Terra and
Tartarus.


=Uller= (Ulʹler). The Scandinavian god who presided over archery and
duels.

=Ulysses= (Ulysʹses). A noted king of Ithaca, whose exploits in
connection with the Trojan war, and his adventures on his return
therefrom, are the subject of Homer's Odyssey. His wife's name was
Penelope, and he was so much endeared to her that he feigned madness
to get himself excused from going to the Trojan war; but this artifice
was discovered, and he was compelled to go. He was of great help to
the Grecians, and forced Achilles from his retreat, and obtained the
charmed arrows of Hercules from Philoctetes, and used them against the
Trojans. He enabled Paris to shoot one of them at the heel of
Achilles, and so kill that charmed warrior. During his wanderings on
his homeward voyage he was taken prisoner by the Cyclopes and escaped,
after blinding Polyphemus, their chief. At Aeolia he obtained all the
winds of heaven, and put them in a bag; but his companions, thinking
that the bags contained treasure which they could rob him of when they
got to Ithaca, cut the bags, and let out the winds, and the ships were
immediately blown back to Aeolia. After Circe had turned his
companions into swine on an island where he and they were shipwrecked,
he compelled the goddess to restore them to their human shape again.
As he passed the islands of the Sirens he escaped their allurements by
stopping the ears of his companions with wax, and fastening himself to
the mast of his ship. His wife Penelope was a pattern of constancy;
for, though Ulysses was reported to be dead, she would not marry any
one else, and had the satisfaction of finding her husband return after
an absence of about twenty years. The Greek name of Ulysses is
Odysseus.

    "To show what pious wisdom's power can do,
    The poet sets Ulysses in our view."

=Undine= (Unʹdine). A water-nymph, or sylph, who, according to fable,
might receive a human soul by marrying a mortal.

=Unknown God, An.= With reference to this God, nothing can be more
appropriate than St. Paul's address to the Athenians, as recorded in
the 17th chapter of the Acts of the Apostles:

    "_Ye_ men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
    superstitious. For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions,
    I found an altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD.
    Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.
    God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that
    he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made
    with hands; neither is worshiped with men's hands, as though
    he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath,
    and all things; and hath made of one blood all nations of men
    for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath
    determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of
    their habitation; that they should seek the Lord, if haply
    they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far
    from every one of us: for in him we live, and move, and have
    our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For
    we are also his offspring. Forasmuch then as we are the
    offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is
    like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's
    device. And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but
    now commandeth all men everywhere to repent: because he hath
    appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in
    righteousness by _that_ man whom he hath ordained; _whereof_
    he hath given assurance unto all _men_, in that he hath
    raised him from the dead."

=Unxia= (Unxʹia). A name of Juno, relating to her protection of newly
married people.

=Urania= (Uraʹnia). A daughter of Jupiter and Mnemosyne--one of the
Muses who presided over astronomy.

  [Illustration: Venus de Milo
      _See page 142_]

=Uranus= (Uraʹnus), literally, heaven. Son and husband of Gaea, the
Earth, and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans. The Greek name of
Coelus; his descendants are sometimes called Uranides.

=Urgus= (Urʹgus). A name of Pluto, signifying the Impeller.

=Ursa Major= (Urʹsa Maʹjor), see Calisto.

=Ursa Minor= (Urʹsa Miʹnor), see Arcas.

=Usurers=, see Jani.

=Utgard Loki= (Utʹgard Loʹki). In Scandinavian mythology the king of
the giants.


=Valhalla= (Valhalʹla). The Scandinavian temple of immortality,
inhabited by the souls of heroes slain in battle.

=Vali= (Vaʹli). The Scandinavian god of archery.

=Valleys=, see Vallonia.

=Vallonia= (Valloʹnia). The goddess of valleys.

=Varuna= (Varuʹna). The Hindoo Neptune--generally represented as a
white man riding on a sea-horse, carrying a club in one hand and a
rope or noose to bind offenders in the other.

=Vedius= (Veʹdius). The same as Vejovis.

=Vejovis= (Vejoʹvis). "Little Jupiter"--a name given to Jupiter when
he appeared without his thunder.

=Vejupiter= (Vejuʹpiter), see Vejovis.

=Vengeance=, see Nemesis.

=Venus= (Veʹnus). The goddess of beauty, and mother of love. She is
said to have sprung from the foam of the sea, and was immediately
carried to the abode of the gods on Olympus, where they were all
charmed with her extreme beauty. Vulcan married her, but she permitted
the attentions of others of the gods, and notably of Mars, their
offspring being Hermione, Cupid, and Anteros. After this she left
Olympus and fell in love with Adonis, a beautiful youth, who was
killed when hunting a wild boar. Venus indirectly caused the Trojan
War, for, when the goddess of discord had thrown among the goddesses
the golden apple inscribed "To the fairest," Paris adjudged the apple
to Venus, and she inspired him with love for Helen, wife of Menelaus,
king of Sparta. Paris carried off Helen to Troy, and the Greeks
pursued and besieged the city (see Helen, Paris, and Troy). Venus is
mentioned by the classic poets under the names of Aphrodite, Cypria,
Urania, Astarte, Paphia, Cythera, and the laughter-loving goddess. Her
favorite residence was at Cyprus. Incense alone was usually offered on
her altars, but if there was a victim it was a white goat. Her
attendants were Cupids and the Graces.

=Verticordia= (Vertiʹcorʹdia). A Roman name of Venus, signifying the
power of love to change the hard-hearted. The corresponding Greek
name was Epistrophia.

=Vertumnus= (Vertumʹnus) ("the Turner," "Changer"). God of spring, or,
as some mythologists say, of the seasons; the husband of Pomona, the
goddess of fruits and orchards.

=Vesta= (Vesʹta), daughter of Saturn and Cybele, was the goddess of
the hearth and its fire. She had under her special care and protection
a famous statue of Minerva, before which the Vestal Virgins kept a
fire or lamp constantly burning.

=Vestal Virgins= (Vesʹtal Virʹgins) were the priestesses of Vesta,
whose chief duty was to see that the sacred fire in the temple of
Vesta was not extinguished. They were always selected from the best
families, and were under a solemn vow of chastity, and compelled to
live perfectly pure lives.

=Vialis= (Viaʹlis). A name of Mercury, because he presided over the
making of roads.

=Victory= (Vicʹtory). A goddess, the daughter of Styx and Acheron,
generally represented as flying in the air holding out a wreath of
laurel. Her Greek name is Nike (_Nicē_). See Nicephorus.

=Vidor.= A Scandinavian god, who could walk on the water and in the
air. The god of silence (corresponding with the classic Harpocrates).

=Virtue.= A goddess worshiped by most of the ancients under various
names. The way to the temple of honor was through the temple of
virtue.

=Virtuous Women=, see Juno.

=Vishnu= (Vishʹnu). The Preserver, the principal Hindoo goddess.

=Volupia= (Voluʹpia), see Angeronia.

=Vulcan= (Vulʹcan), the god of fire, was the son of Jupiter and Juno.
He offended Jupiter, and was by him thrown out of heaven; he was nine
days falling, and at last dropped into Lemnos with such violence that
he broke his leg, and was lame forever after. Vulcan was married to
Venus. He is supposed to have formed Pandora out of clay. His servants
were the Cyclopes. He was the patron deity of blacksmiths, and as the
smelter or softener of metal bears also the name of Mulciber.

    "Men call him Mulciber; and how he fell
    From heaven, they fabled, thrown by angry Jove,
    Sheer o'er the crystal battlements."
                                    Milton.

=Vulcanalia= (Vulcān-alʹia) were Roman festivals in honor of
Vulcan, at which the victims (certain fish and animals) were thrown
into the fire and burned to death.


=War=, see Bellona, Chemos, Mars.

=Water=, see Canopus.

=Water-Nymphs=, see Doris.

=Wax Tablets=, see Calliope.

=Wealth=, see Cuvera.

=Weaving=, see Ergatis.

=Weeding=, see Runcina.

=Weights and Measures=, see Mercury.

=Well=, see Truth.

=West Wind=, see Favonius.

=Winds=, see Aurora, Auster, Boreas, Zephyr.

=Wine=, see Bacchus, Suradevi.

=Wisdom=, see Pollear, Minerva.

=Woden= (Woʹden), the Anglo-Saxon form of the Scandinavian god Odin;
Wednesday is called after him.

=Women's Safeguard=, see Sospita.

=Woodpecker=, see Picus.

=Woods=, see Dryads.

=World=, see Chaos.


=Xanthus= (Xanʹthus), the name of the wonderful horse of Achilles.


=Yama= (Yaʹma). The Hindoo devil, generally represented as a terrible
monster of a green color, with flaming eyes.

=Ygdrasil= (Ygʹdraʹsil). The famous ash-tree of Scandinavian
mythology, under which the gods held daily council.

=Ymir= (Yʹmir). The Scandinavian god, corresponding to Chaos of the
classics.

=Youth= (perpetual), see Tithonus.


=Zephyr= (Zephʹyr) or =Zephyrus= (Zephʹyrus). The west wind and god
of flowers, a son of Astraeus and Aurora (Eos). See Favonius.

    "Wanton Zephyr, come away.
      .  .  .  .  .
    The sun, and Mira's charming eyes,
      At thy return more charming grow.
    With double glory they appear,
    To warm and grace the infant year."
                                    John Hughes, 1700.

=Zetes= (Zeʹtes), with his brother Calais, drove the Harpies from
Thrace.

=Zethus= (Zeʹthus), twin brother of Amphion. He was the son of Antiope
and Zeus. See Amphion.

=Zeus= (Zūs). The Greek name of Jupiter, the greatest god in
Grecian mythology. He was the god of the sky and its phenomena, and as
such was worshiped on the highest mountains, on which he was
enthroned. From Zeus come all changes in the sky or the winds; he is
the gatherer of the clouds which dispense fertilizing rain; and is
also the thunderer and hurler of lightning.


THE END.




=Entertainments for Every Occasion.= Ideas, games, charades, tricks,
plans--for keeping those present entertained, on whatever occasion,
whether a party, a festival, a bazaar, an entertainment, or merely
"our own folks" or an "_entre nous_."

=The Humorous Speaker.= The choicest, most recent _humor_ that lends
itself to _recitation_. Easily the best collection that has been made.
The selections are chosen because they are _good literature_, and
because they are _good recitations_. Unhackneyed material--most of it
from recently copyrighted books, for which _special permission_ has
been secured. A _hundred and twenty five_ selections, about 500 pages.

=Commencement Parts.= "Efforts" for all occasions. _Models_ for every
possible occasion in high-school and college career, every one of the
"efforts" being what some fellow has _stood on his feet_ and actually
delivered on a similar occasion--not what the compiler _would_ say if
_he_ should happen to be called on for an ivy song or a response to a
toast, or what not; but what the fellow himself, when his turn came,
_did say_! Invaluable, indispensable to those preparing any kind of
"effort." _Unique._

Contains _models_ of the salutatory, the valedictory, orations, class
poems, class songs, class mottoes, class will, ivy poem and song,
Dux's speech; essays and addresses for flag day, the seasons, national
and other holidays; after-dinner speeches and responses to toasts.
Also _models_ for occasional addresses--social, educational,
political, religious. Also models for _superintendents'_ and
_principals'_ addresses to graduating class, debating team,
educational conference; on dedication of school building, public
building, library; for holidays, festival days, and scores of social
and other occasions. Also themes for essays, and lists of _subjects_
for orations, essays, toasts.

=College Men's 3-Minute Declamations.= Material with vitality in it
for prize speaking. _14th edit._

=College Maids' 3-Minute Readings.= Up-to-date recitations from living
men and women. On the plan of the popular College Men's 3-Minute
Declamations, and on the same high plane. _Twelfth edition._

=Pieces for Prize Speaking Contests.= _Volume I._ Over one hundred
pieces that have _actually taken prizes_ in prize speaking contests.
_Successful._

=Pieces for Prize Speaking Contests.= _Vol. II._

=Pieces for Every Occasion.= "Special days."

=Famous Poems Explained.= (Barbe).

=How to Attract and Hold an Audience.= Every student in college or
school, every lawyer, every teacher, every clergyman, every man or
woman occupying an official position, every citizen and every youth
who is likely ever to have occasion in committee, or in public, to
enlist the interest, to attract and hold the attention of one or more
hearers, and _convince_ them--every person who ever has to, or is
likely to have to "speak" to one or more listeners will find in our
new book a clear, concise, _complete_ handbook which will enable him
to _succeed_!

Thorough, concise, methodical, replete with common sense, complete. In
his logical method, in the crystal-like lucidity of his style, in his
forceful, incisive, penetrating mastery of his subject, the author has
at one bound placed himself on a plane with the very ablest
teacher-authors of his day.

=Fenno's Science and Art of Elocution.= _Standard._ Probably the most
successful of its kind.

=The Power of Speech, How to Acquire It.= A comprehensive system of
vocal expression. Thorough and practical instruction in the use of the
speaking voice, embracing deep breathing, articulation, modulation,
emphasis and delivery; vocal coloring, interpretation of the written
word, the conveying of thought by means of vocal expression, and the
principles of oratory and dramatic art.

=The Psychology of Public Speaking.= A scientific treatment of the
practical needs of the public speaker. A worth-while book.

=How to Use the Voice= in Reading and Speaking. By Ed. Amherst Ott,
head of the School of Oratory, Drake University. Suitable for class
work.

=How to Gesture.= E. A. Ott. New _illus._ edit.

=Constitution of U. S.= In English, German and French.

=Constitution of U. S., with Index.= (Thorpe's _Pocket Edition_).

=Brief History of Civilization.= (Blackmar).

=The Changing Values of English Speech.=

=The Worth of Words.= (Bell).

=The Religion of Beauty.= (Bell).

=Dictionaries: The Classic Series.= _Half morocco._ Especially
planned for students and teachers in colleges and high schools. Up to
the times in point of contents, authoritative while modern as regards
scholarship, instantly accessible in respect to arrangement, in a
binding elegant and durable. 8×5½ in.

    _French-English and Eng.-French_,
    _German-English and Eng.-German_,
    _Latin-English and Eng.-Latin_,
    _Greek-English and Eng.-Greek_,
    _English-Greek Dictionary_.

=Dictionaries: The Handy Series.= _Pocket Edition._ Scholarship modern
and accurate; beautiful print.

    _Spanish-English and Eng.-Spanish_,
    _Italian-English and Eng.-Italian_,
    _New-Testament Lexicon_. With a fine presentation
    of the _Synonyms_ of the Greek Testament.

=Liddell and Scott's Abridged Greek Lexicon.= With new _Appendix of
Proper and Geog'l names_.

=White's Latin-English Dictionary.=

=White's English-Latin Dictionary.=

=White's Lat.-Eng. and Eng.-Lat. Diction.=

=International Pronouncing French-English and Eng.-French Dictionary.=
_Half morocco._ The _pronunciation_ is indicated by a full re-spelling
of each title-word in the system of the _International Phonetic
Associ'n_, a widely used means of indicating, simply and accurately,
the _pronunciation_ of _all_ languages in a _single_ (amplified)
_Roman alphabet_.

=Who's Who in Mythology?= A dictionary of mythological characters.
Identifies and locates _instanter_ every god and goddess, hero and
myth that are likely to be broached either in conversation, sermon,
song, drama, painting or statuary.

=Who's Who in History?= A dictionary of classical characters and
allusions. Locates the places, identifies the persons, describes the
things, which are constantly alluded to in literature, in sermons, in
paintings, in sculpture and in conversation.




=BOOKS BY RALCY HUSTED BELL=


=The Worth of Words=

_Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged._

The SOULS of words live after their forms change. This spiritual
element of words survives as literature. The _living_ book contains
the EGO of the author--the spiritual personality of his mind. This
book treats of the _right_ usage of words on this vital basis. It is a
_living_ guide. Simple and clear, it aids correct speech and shows how
to vitalize words with SOUL.


=The Changing Values of English Speech=

A mate to THE WORTH OF WORDS. Touches lightly the philosophical side
in a _practical_ way: illumines _Style_, _Soul of Words_, _Early
English_, _Language Change_, _Poetry_, _Syntax_, _Variations in
Word-Meanings_, _Distinctions_, _Origin of Language_, _Old Celtic
Friends_, _English Orthography_, _Words Changed Since Shakespeare_,
_Commonplace Poetry_, _Aborigines_. Reads with the _fascination of
romance_.


=The Religion of Beauty=

_Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged._

This is the autobiography of a Soul glad of life--one who finds riches
in the possessions of others and, above all, a golden wealth in man's
_Impersonal Estate_--in SKY and STAR, SUN and CITY, the SEA and the
OPEN WORLD--one who finds the _Religion_ of _Beauty_ in all things,
and reveals the secret whereby all who will may dig up "real wealth"
while having a good time.


=Taormina=

_Illustrated. New Historic Matter._

History is told here with Maeterlinck's charm of style; scenes are
painted with the power and beauty of Hearn; philosophy is
unconsciously brought forth from events. Greek legend weaves a
necklace of imagery which holds ETNA in its clasp. Martial echoes
mingle with the voices of ancient poets, the murmur of the Ionian Sea
and of olive leaves in sunny Sicily.




=English and American Literature=

=A One Year Course=

=FROM CHAUCER TO MARK TWAIN=

By B. A. HEYDRICK, A. B.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH, HIGH SCHOOL OF COMMERCE NEW YORK CITY

Interestingly written, illustrated with portraits and enlivened by
pictures of scenes described, facsimiles of manuscripts, etc.

In the space of three hundred pages the author has managed to give a
clear account of English literature from Chaucer to Mark Twain and
James Whitcomb Riley. It is _not_ a mere outline, but a continuous
narrative, and really the most engaging book on the subject that has
appeared. It is written on a different plan from most brief
text-books. The author has wisely not attempted to treat every author
in English literature. By omitting the names which have no meaning for
us to-day the author has gained space to treat the really significant
writers quite fully enough for the needs of young students. An
excellent feature of the book is the profusion of _illustrations_.
Throughout the work emphasis is placed upon books that _still live_.
The nineteenth century in particular is treated fully; the writers may
be no greater than those of the eighteenth, but they have more to say
to us.

Each chapter is followed by a list of recommended reading in the chief
authors, with references to volumes where these may be found. By means
of this recommended reading _the course covered by this book may
readily be extended to cover two years' work_, or more. Under each
chief author is mentioned a standard library edition of his works and
inexpensive editions of single volumes.




=The Speaker Series=

The Speaker Series (32 vols) paper.

    No. 1  Popular Short Stories
    No. 2  Selections Chosen for Declamation Contest
    No. 3  Selections for Children to Recite
    No. 4  Cuttings from Stories
    No. 5  Cuttings from Stories
    No. 6  Ten Short Plays
    No. 7  Readings, and Four Plays
    No. 8  Briefs of Debates, and Readings
    No. 9  Cuttings of Popular Stories
    No. 10 Modern American Oratory
    No. 11 Dramatic and Humorous Readings
    No. 12 Centennial Number
    No. 13 New Platform Selections
    No. 14 Selections for Religious Occasions
    No. 15 Encores: Nearly 200 Fresh, Bright Hits
    No. 16 Popular Platform Readings
    No. 17 Humorous and Dramatic Readings
    No. 18 Monologues
    No. 19 On Temperance
    No. 20 For Declamation Contests
    No. 21 After-dinner Speaking
    No. 22 School and College Readings
    No. 23 Selections for Entertainments
    No. 24 Dramatic Selections
    No. 25 Popular Prose and Poetry
    No. 26 Readings from Great Authors
    No. 27 Readings and Debates Not Found Elsewhere
    No. 28 Classic Masterpieces
    No. 29 Best Fiction for the Platform
    No. 30 Humorous and Pathetic Readings
    No. 31 Patriotic Selections
    No. 32 Scenes from Plays for Platform Readings

THE ABOVE NUMBERS IN EIGHT BOUND VOLUMES, indexed by authors and
titles:

    Vol. I.    Including Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4,
    Vol. II.   Including Nos. 5, 6, 7 and 8,
    Vol. III.  Including Nos. 9, 10, 11 and 12,
    Vol. IV.   Including Nos. 13, 14, 15 and 16,
    Vol. V.    Including Nos. 17, 18, 19, 20,
    Vol. VI.   Including Nos. 21, 22, 23, 24,
    Vol. VII.  Including Nos. 25, 26, 27, 28,
    Vol. VIII. Including Nos. 29, 30, 31, 32.




Transcriber's Note

As referred to in the Transcriber's note at the beginning of this
ebook, proper nouns have been amended for ease of searching as
follows:

    Page 13--Deianeira amended to Deianira--... in his love for
    Deianira.

    Page 18--Podalirus amended to Podalirius--... Machaon and
    Podalirius, both famous physicians, ...

    Page 31--Rumina amended to Rumia--=Babes=, see Rumia Dea.

    Page 32--Thanyris amended to Thamyris--=Blind=, see Thamyris.

    Page 49--Antaeas amended to Antaeus--=Earth=, see Antaeus.

    Page 55--Plato amended to Pluto--=Februus= (Febʹruus). A name
    of Pluto, ...

    Page 56--Chimera amended to Chimaera--She was the reputed
    mother of Chimaera, ...

    Page 61--Segestia amended to Segetia--=Harvest=, see Segetia.

    Page 70--Venns amended to Venus--... in which there is a
    grove sacred to Venus.

    Page 72--Argus amended to Argos--... and a priestess of Juno
    at Argos.

    Page 79--Romas amended to Romans--The Romans used to swear by
    Jupiter Lapis.

    Page 84--Diomede amended to Diomedes--... but was defeated by
    Diomedes.

    Page 87--Thot amended to Thoth--There was also an Egyptian
    Mercury under the name of Thoth, ...

    Page 89--Glaucopis amended to Glaukopis--... Pallas,
    Parthenos, Tritonia, and Glaukopis.

    Page 117--Japetes amended to Japetus--... the son of Japetus
    ...

    Page 122--Runcia amended to Runcina--=Runcina= (Runcina). The
    goddess of weeding ...

    Page 127--Chimera amended to Chimaera--See Aesculapius,
    Apollo, Chimaera, ...

    Page 127--Thanyris amended to Thamyris--=Singing=, see
    Polyhymnia, Thamyris.

    Page 130--Ergotis amended to Ergatis--=Spinning=, see
    Arachne, Ergatis.

    Page 134--Thesmorphonius amended to
    Thesmorphonis--=Thesmorphonis= (Thesmorphonis). A name of
    Ceres.

    Page 135--Naryanan amended to Narayan--=Tides=, see Narayan.

    Page 141--Calistro amended to Calisto--=Ursa Major= (Urʹsa
    Maʹjor), see Calisto.

    Page 145--Ergatos amended to Ergatis--=Weaving=, see Ergatis.

The book notes Vishnu as a goddess, and Laksmi as one of Vishnu's
husbands. This is preserved as printed.

Minor punctuation errors have been repaired. Hyphenation has been made
consistent.

The following printer errors have been repaired:

    Page 102--anxiiety amended to anxiety--Orpheus, however, in
    his anxiety ...

    Page 124--spirites amended to sprites--The sprites of fiery
    termagants in flame, ...

    Page 140--preceive amended to perceive--... I perceive that
    in all things ye are too superstitious.

With regard to quoted material, all attributions (or lack thereof)
are preserved as in the original.

The transcriber notes that, on page 16, two couplets are attributed
to Pope, although the second is actually from Dryden. However, this
is preserved as printed.

The frontispiece illustration has been moved to follow the title page.
Other illustrations have been moved where necessary so that they are
not in the middle of a paragraph.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of 1000 Mythological Characters Briefly
Described, by Edward S. Ellis

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 1000 MYTHOLOGICAL CHARACTERS ***

***** This file should be named 42474-0.txt or 42474-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/2/4/7/42474/

Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Sam W. and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

