
the society be reproached.

IV. Next let all be favored as they are distinguished for understanding,
high birth, and riches, particularly if they have powerful friends and
kindred who are attached to the society, and are themselves sincerely
devoted to it, in the manner aforesaid; let such be sent to ROME, or
to the more celebrated universities to study; but if they should study
in the provinces, they are to be encouraged by the utmost kindness and
indulgence on the part of the professors, and up to the moment of their
surrendering every thing to the society, nothing is to be denied them;
after that, however, they are to be mortified like the rest, some regard
perhaps, being always had to the past.

V. The superiors must also show peculiar respect to those who may have
drawn any clever youths into the society, whereby they have not a little
proven their love for it; but so long as these are not yet professed, let
not the others be too much indulged; lest possibly, they should withdraw
from the society, those whom they led into it.




CAP. XIII.

    _De delectu juvenum in societatem admittendorum, et modo
    retinendi._


I. Summa prudentia contendendum est ut deligantur juvenes ingenio bono,
formà non contemnenda, genere nobiles, aut quod minimum horum aliquo
excellentes.

II. Ut facilius ad institutum nostrum pertrahantur, peculiari affectu
quamdiu student à præfectis scholarum et magistris sunt præveniendi,
extra tempora scholæ, ab iisdem sunt instruendi, quam gratum Deo sit, si
quibus illi se et sua omnia, præsertim in societate filii sui, consecret.

III. Ducantur occasione data per collegium et hortum, immo aliquando
etiam ad villas, et cum nostris versentur tempore recreationum, et
paulatim familiares fiant, cavendo tamen ne familiaritas pariat
contemptum.

IV. Non permittantur castigari, et in ordinem redigi à præceptoribus cum
aliis discipulis.

V. Munusculis ac privilegiis variis ætati illorum conformibus devinciendi
sunt, et maxime colloquiis spiritualibus sunt animandi.

VI. Inculcetur illis hæc fieri dispositione divina, tamquam ad societatem
electis præ tot aliis idem gymnasium frequentantibus.

VII. Aliis occasionibus, præsertim exhortationibus, terrendi sunt minis
damnationis æternæ, nisi divinæ vocationi obtemperent.

VIII. Si societatem ingredi constanter petant, differatur illorum
admissio, quamdiu constantes manent; quod si mutabiles appareant,
quamprimum, et omnibus modis foveantur.

IX. Admoneantur efficaciter, ne ulli familiari suo, et ne quidem
parentibus vocationem suam aperiant, priusquam admissi sint; quod si
deinde aliqua illos tentatio resiliendi superveniat, in integro tum ipse,
tum societas erit; et si illa superata fuerit, semper erit occasio illos
rememoratione ejusdem postea animandi, si tempore novitiatus, aut post
emissa vota simplicia obveniat.

X. Quia vero maxima difficultas est in alliciendis magnatum, nobilium,
senatorum filiis, quamdiu apud parentes sunt, qui illos ad succedendum
illorum officiis educant; persuadendum illis per amicos potius quam
per personas societatis, ut illos in aliis provinciis, et remotis
universitatibus collocent, in quibus nostri docent, præmissis
instructionibus ad professores de qualitate et conditionibus illorum, ut
affectum illorum societati facilius, et certius concilient.

XI. Quando ad ætatem aliquomodo maturam pervenerint, inducendi erunt ad
facienda aliqua exercitia spiritualia quæ in _Germanis_ et _Polonis_ sæpe
bonum successum habuerunt.

XII. Perturbationibus et afflictionibus illorum occurrendum erit, pro
qualitate et conditione uniuscujusque, adhibitis demonstrationibus, et
exhortationibus privatis de malo successu divitiarum, et bona vocationis
non contemnendo sub pæna indictionis pænæ infernalis.

XIII. Apud parentes ut facilius filiorum suorum desiderio in societatem
ingrediendi condescendant, ostendatur excellentia instituti societatis,
præ aliis religionibus, sanctitatis et doctrinæ patrum nostrorum,
æstimatio integra apud omnes, honor et applausus universalis, qui
societati à summis et à minimis defertur; et recenseatur numerus
principum et magnatum, qui magno animi sui solatio in hac societate
_Jesu_ vixerunt, et mortui sunt, et etiamnum vivunt: ostendatur quam
gratum Deo sit quod juvenes sese illi mancipent, præsertim in societate
filii sui, et quam bonum sit viro, cum portaverit jugum Domini ab
adolescentià sua; quod si de teneritudine et minus perfecta ætate
disceptetur, declaretur facilitas instituti nostri, quod præter trium
votorum observationem, nihil aliud quod valde molestum sit, continet, et
quod valde spectandum est, nullam regulam obligare, nequidem sub peccato
veniali.




CHAP. XIII.

    _Of the selection of youths for admission into the society, and
    the way to retain them._


I. The utmost prudence must be exercised, that the youths selected, may
be distinguished for the excellence of their understanding, agreeableness
of form, or dignity of birth, or at the very least for one of these.

II. As a means of drawing them more readily into our order, the prefects
and masters of schools must guide them with extraordinary assiduity,
whilst they study, and in time of recess instil into them, how acceptable
it is to God, for any one to consecrate himself, with all he has, to him,
especially in this society of his son.

III. They may be led, on proper occasions, through the colleges and
gardens, indeed occasionally even to our villas, and admitted to our
recreations, becoming gradually intimate, care, however, being taken that
familiarity does not breed contempt.

IV. The preceptors must not be permitted to chastise, and reduce them to
the level of other pupils.

V. They must be overcome by little gifts and various privileges suitable
to their age; but above all let them be excited by spiritual discourses.

VI. Let them be impressed with the divine interposition manifested in
their election to the society, in preference to all their school-mates.

VII. At other times, especially in exhortations, they must be terrified
with threats of eternal damnation, if they refuse to comply with the
divine call.

VIII. If they continue firmly in the desire to enter the society, their
admission can be deferred as long as they remain constant; but if they
seem to waver, use every method, immediately, to establish them.

IX. Let them be effectually taught, not to mention their vocation to any
friend, nor even to their parents, before their admission; so that if
subsequently any temptation should cause their relapse, neither the youth
nor the society shall be exposed; but if the temptation be overcome, its
recollection will always afford an opportunity of stimulating them, if it
occurred during their noviciate, or after the taking of their first vows.

X. As the greatest difficulty exists, in alluring the children of the
great, noble, and powerful, whilst they are with their parents, who are
training them to succeed to the situations they themselves occupy,—they
should be persuaded by our friends, rather than our members, to place
them in other provinces, at remote universities, in which we teach,
previous instructions being given to the professors of the quality and
condition of the youths,—and so, we may readily and certainly conciliate
their good will towards the society.

XI. As they arrive at an age somewhat mature, lead them to the
performance of certain spiritual exercises which have often ended
well,—as in _Germany_ and _Poland_.

XII. When they are in affliction and distress, is the time to urge and
admonish them, according to their rank and circumstances, of the vanity
of riches, and the blessedness of yielding to their vocation, rather than
to suffer eternal torment.

XIII. To obtain more readily, the assent of parents, to the desire of
their sons to join the society, we must exhibit the superiority of this,
above all other religious societies, on account of the sanctity and
wisdom of its fathers, its pure reputation with all, and the universal
honor and applause, which it receives, from the very highest to the
lowest; let us also enumerate the princes and nobles, who with infinite
comfort to their own souls, have lived and died, or do still live in
this society of JESUS: let us show how acceptable it is to God for the
young to give themselves to him, particularly in this society of his Son,
and how excellent for a man to have served God, from his youth; but if
there should be some hesitation, on account of tenderness and immaturity
of age, we can clearly display the gentleness of our institute, which
contains nothing very irksome, except the observance of _the three vows_;
indeed it ought to be specially noted, that we have no system, whose
violation would incur even venal sin.




CAP. XIV.

    _De casibus reservatis, et causa dimittendi è societate._


I. Præter causas expressas in constitutionibus, à quibus solus superior
aut confessarius ordinarius cum ejus licentia absolvere poterit, sunt
sodomia, mollities, fornicatio, adulterium, stuprum, tactus impudicus
maris aut fæminæ, præterea si quis quacumque zeli causa aut occasione
quomodo libet quidquam grave moliatur contra societatem, ejusque honorem
aut utilitatem, quæ etiam omnes sunt justæ causæ dimissionis.

II. Quod si quis aliquid hujusmodi confiteatur sacramentaliter, non
prius absolvetur, quam promiserit se extra confessionem superiori
manifestaturum per se vel per confessarium; tum superior concludet pro
bono communi societatis, quod melius videbitur, et si certa spes sit
criminis occultandi, conformi pænitentia plectendus erit, sin vero quam
primum dimittendus; cavebit sibi interim confessarius dicere pænitenti
illum periclitari de dimissione.

III. Si quis ex nostris confessariis audiverit ab aliqua persona
externa, quod cum aliquo è societate rem turpem commiserit, non eam
prius absolvat, quam extra confessionem aperuerit nomen illius cum quo
peccavit; quod si dixerit, adhuc non absolvatur, nisi jurejurando se
obstrinxerit se nunquam id ulli mortalium revelaturam sine consensu
societatis.

IV. Si duo ex nostris carnaliter peccaverint, si prior manifestaverit,
in societate retineatur, alter dimittatur; sed deinde is qui detinetur
ita mortificetur, et undequaque affligatur; ut præ tædio et impatientia
occasionem det dimissionis, quæ statim arripiatur.

V. Poterit etiam societas, cum sit corpus nobile et præstans in ecclesia,
à se præscindere hujusmodi personas, quæ ad instituti nostri executionem
minus idoneæ videbuntur, quamvis initio satisfecerint; et facile
invenietur occasio, si, nempe, continuo vexentur, et omnia fiant contra
illorum inclinationem, subjiciantur superioribus tetricis, arceantur à
studiis ac functionibus honorificentioribus, &c., donec obmurmurent.

VI. Retinendi etiam nullatenus sunt, qui aut superioribus palam
insurgunt, aut palam aut clam apud socios ac potissimum externos
conqueruntur; item qui apud domesticos vel externos modum agendi
societatis, quoad acquisitionem aut administrationem bonorum temporalium
condemnant, vel alias rationes agendi verbi gratia, conculcandi ac
supprimendi male affectos erga societatem, vel dimissos, &c. quin etiam,
qui _Venetos_, _Francos_, aut alios à quibus societas pulsa, et gravia
damna passa est, in colloquiis ferunt aut defendunt.

VII. Ante dimissionem, acerrime agitandi sunt ii qui dimittentur,
amovendi à consuetis officiis, et modo huic, modo illi applicandi,
interim quantumcumque bene præstiterint, reprehendendi, eoque titulo
alteri applicandi; pro leviori culpa quam forte commiserint graves pænæ
assignentur, confundantur publice usque ad impatientiam, tandemque
tanquam aliis perniciosi dimittantur; ad hoc autem locus, de quo minime
opinantur, eligatur.

VIII. Si de aliquo nostrorum spes certa sit de obtinendo episcopatu, aut
alia dignitate ecclesiastica, præter consueta societatis vota, cogatur
alterum emittere; quod semper bene de instituto societatis censurus sit,
ac dicturus, neque alio confessario quam qui de societate sit, utetur;
quinimo se in nullis rebus alicujus momenti quidquam dispositurum, nisi
audito judicio societatis; quod quia cardinalis _Toletus_ non observavit,
societas à sancta sede impetravit, ut posthac nullus _Maranus_, perfidiæ
_Judaicæ_ aut _Mahometicæ_ hæres admittatur; qui tale votum præstare
noluerit, tanquam acerrimus societatis hostis, quantumcumque celebris
esset, dimittatur.




CHAP. XIV.

    _Of reserved cases, and of cause of dismission from the
    society._


I. Besides the cases laid down in the constitutions, in which a superior
alone, or an ordinary confessor, by the license of the superior, can
grant absolution, there are, sodomy, wantonness, fornication, adultery,
incest, male or female uncleanness as well as one’s becoming the cause,
or even the occasion, and through the utmost zeal, even of any injury
to the society, to its honor or success,—all which are just causes for
dismission.

II. When any one shall sacramentally confess any thing of this kind,
he shall not be absolved, until he has promised, that, besides the
confession, he will, personally or through his confessor, discover
himself to the superior; then the superior must determine what seems best
for the common good of the society; for if there be certain hope, that
the crime may be concealed, it can be punished by an adequate penance, if
otherwise, let him be immediately dismissed; the confessor, however, will
be careful not to tell the penitent his danger of dismission.

III. If any confessor should hear, from a strange woman, that she has
carnally known some member of the society, he must not absolve her,
unless besides her confession, she reveals the name of her paramour, nor
even then, until she shall solemnly swear never to disclose it again to
any mortal, without the society’s consent.

IV. If two members, sin carnally, and one discovers it first, let him be
retained in the society, and the other dismissed; but the one retained
should be afterwards so humbled and constantly worried, that through
weariness and impatience, he may offer an occasion for dismission, which
is to be instantly seized.

V. Our society must, if it would perpetuate in the church its noble and
exalted association, cut off such persons, as appear at all unfit for
our purpose, even though they begin well; and occasion will readily be
found, if they be continually vexed, and all things managed contrary to
their wishes, by subjecting them to harsh superiors, depriving them of
more honorable pursuits and functions, &c., until they murmur.

VI. None are by any means to be retained, who openly oppose the
superiors, or complain either publicly or privately, to their companions,
or what is worse to those not members; nor in like manner, they who,
whether at home or abroad, condemn our method of proceeding, as to the
acquisition or administration of wealth, or indeed any thing else, as,
for example, the method of crushing and suppressing the disaffected, or
the dismissed, &c.; neither they who tolerate or defend the _Venetians_,
the _French_, or any others from whom the society has suffered oppression
or still sorer injuries.

VII. All who are to be dismissed should be treated beforehand with the
greatest severity; let them be deprived of their usual employment; let
them be applied first to one thing, then to another, and no matter how
well they may succeed, blame them, and under this pretence change their
employment; for the slightest accidental faults, impose heavy penances,
rebuke them publicly in an insupportable manner, and finally discharge
them, as if they were pernicious to others; but let an opportunity for
this be selected, which will be the least apprehended by them.

VIII. If any of our members should have a sure prospect of obtaining a
bishopric, or other ecclesiastical dignity, he should be compelled, in
addition to the accustomed vow of the society, to take another, that
he will always esteem and commend our institution, that he will use no
confessor, who is not one of us, in short that he will determine nothing,
in any important matter, but in accordance with the judgment of the
society; in consequence of the non-observance of which by Cardinal
TOLET, the society obtained from the _holy see_, that afterwards no
_Maronite_, the perfidious offspring of the Jews or Mahomedans, should be
admitted; and whoever refuses this vow, no matter how distinguished he
may be, must be dismissed as the worst enemy of the society.




CAP. XV.

    _Quomodo agendum cum monialibus, et devotariis._


I. Caveant valde confessarii et concionatores offendere moniales, aut
illis dare occasionem tentationis contra vocationem, sed contra affectu
potissimum superiorum sibi conciliato, procurent confessiones saltem
extraordinarias excipere, et conciones apud eas facere, si gratitudinem
illarum vicissim experiantur; multum enim juvare societatem possunt
nobiles, præsertim ac divites abbatiæ, tum per se, tum per parentes ac
amicos suos, adeo ut mediante notitia primariorum monasteriorum paulatim
in notitiam et amicitias totius fere civitatis venire possit.

II. Vetandum tamen ex altera parte devotabus nostris, ne monasteria
fæminarum frequentent, ne vivendi ratio illa ipsis magis arrideat, et
sic societas expectatione omnium bonorum, quæ possident, frustretur;
inducantur vero ad præstandum votum castitatis et obedientiæ in manibus
confessarii sui, ostendanturque illam vivendi rationem esse conformem
primitivæ ecclesiæ moribus, utpote lucentem in domo, et non sub modio
sine proximi ædificatione ac fructu animarum; præterquam quod exemplo
viduarum illarum evangelicarum Christo in sociis suis benefaciant de
substantia sua: denique omnia quæ in præjudicium claustralis vitæ sunt,
exponantur, eique applicent, hujusmodi instructiones illis sub secreti
sigillo communicent, ne forte ad aures religiosorum perveniant.




CHAP. XV.

    _Concerning the treatment of nuns and devotees._


I. The confessors and preachers should be extremely careful not to
offend nuns, nor tempt them from their vocation, but on the contrary by
conciliating the affection, especially of the superiors, they should
bring it about, that at least the principal confessions will be heard,
and discourses delivered by themselves, receiving in return the gratitude
of the nuns; for noble and rich abbesses can render great service to the
society, both personally and through their parents and friends, so that
by the aid of the principal monasteries, they may, by degrees obtain the
favor and friendship of almost the whole city where they reside.

II. On the other hand, our devotees should be forbidden to frequent
nunneries, lest they become too fond of that manner of life, and our
society be, in that way, cheated of its expectation, of obtaining all
their property: but, let them be induced to perform the vow of chastity
and obedience, under the guidance of their confessor, having instructed
them that this is the true method agreeably to the practice of the
primitive church, rather to let their light shine through the house,
than to hide it under a bushel, useless to our neighbor and barren of
good to souls: imitating those holy widows who ministered to Christ, let
them bestow their goods on his companions: in short, let every thing
prejudicial to a cloistered life be told, and urged against it; but such
instructions as these must be given under the seal of secrecy, lest they
come to the knowledge of other orders.




CAP. XVI.

    _De contemptu divitiarum palam præ se ferendo._


I. Ne sæculares nobis adscribant nimium affectum erga divitias, juvabit
nonnunquam recusare eleemosynas minoris momenti, quæ pro officiis à
societate præstitis offeruntur; quamquam ab iis qui omnino nobis sunt
addicti, etiam minimas quascumque acceptare conveniat, ne avaritiæ
arguamur, si tantum dona insigniora admittamus.

II. Negandæ erunt sepulturæ personis vilibus, in templis nostris, quamvis
valde addicti fuerint societati, ne videamur pluralitate mortuorum
divitias venari, et constet de beneficiis quæ à mortuo recipimus.

III. Cum viduis aliisque personis, quæ societati pleraque suà dederunt,
agendum erit valde resolute et acrius, cæteris paribus, quam cum aliis,
ne videamur propter considerationem bonorum temporalium illis favere
plus quam cæteris; immo idem observari convenit respectu illorum qui in
societate sunt, sed postquam bonorum suorum cessionem et resignationem in
favorem societatis fecerint; et si necesse sit à societate dimittantur,
sed omni cum discretione, ut saltem partem eorum quæ societati dederant
ei relinquant, aut morientes testamento legent.




CHAP. XVI.

    _Of the outward exhibition of a contempt of riches._


I. To prevent the seculars from charging us with covetousness, it will
be occasionally proper to refuse the smaller alms, which are offered for
services performed by the society; from those, however, who are entirely
devoted to us, it is best to accept even the smallest offerings, lest we
exhibit avarice, by admitting of none, but large gifts.

II. Sepulchre in our churches should be denied to vile persons, although
they may have been greatly attached to the order, for a multitude of such
tombs, might make us suspected of covetousness, and the very benefits
received from the dead, be discovered.

III. Other things being equal, those widows and other persons, who have
given most of their effects to the society, are to be treated with more
decision and firmness, than others,—that we may avoid the appearance of
favoring them, in preference to others, on account of their munificence;
the same rule should be observed with regard to the members of the
society, but not until they have made a cession and surrender of their
wealth to it: after that, if it be necessary, they might be dismissed
from the society, but with infinite discretion, in order to secure the
present relinquishment, or the devise at death, of at least a part of
what they may have presented to the order.




CAP. XVII.

    _De mediis promovendi societatem._


I. In primis in hoc incumbant omnes, ut etiam in rebus parvi momenti
unum semper sentiant, et saltem exterius dicant, sic enim, quantumcumque
res mundi hujus turbidæ fuerint, societas semper necessario augebitur et
confirmabitur.

II. Sic omnes lucere nitantur doctrina et exemplis, ut reliqui religiosi,
præsertim ii qui de clero sunt, pastores, &c. superentur, tandemque
vulgus omnia à nostris tantum præstari optet; quin immo hoc palam
dicatur, non requiri in pastoribus doctrinam tantam, modo suo munere bene
fungantur, consilio enim societatem juvare posse, quæ idcirco studia
summopere commendata habet.

III. Fovendi reges ac principes hac doctrina, quod fides catholica in
præsenti statu persistere nequeat sine politismo, sed ad hoc magna opus
discretione; hac ratione nostri grati erunt magnatibus, et ad intimiora
consilia adhibebuntur.

IV. Foveri poterunt novis, lectissimis, et certissimis undiquaque
transcriptis.

V. Neque parum conferet, si magnatum et principum dissensiones caute
ac secreto nutriantur, etiam cum mutua virium infractione; quod si
animadverteretur verisimiliter conciliandos, societas quam primum illos
pacificare contendet, ne aliunde præveniatur.

VI. Ingeneranda omnibus modis, præsertim vulgo et magnatibus, opinio
de societatis erectione per singularem providentiam divinam, juxta
prophetias _Joachimi_ abbatis, ad hoc ut ecclesia depressa ab hæreticis
elevetur.

VII. Tum magnatum et episcoporum gratia obtenta, occupandi pastoratus et
canonicatus, ad reformationem cleri exactiorem, qui olim sub certo regulo
cum episcopis suis vivebant, et ad perfectionem tendebant, ac tandem ad
abbatias, et prælaturas adspirandum, quas, attenta ignavia ac stupiditate
monachorum, ubi vacaverint, non erit difficile assequi: etenim ex re
ecclesia omnino foret, si omnes episcopatus à societate tenerentur, immo
sedes apostolica possideretur; præsertim si pontifex bonorum omnium
princeps temporalis fieret; quare omni ratione temporalia societatis,
prudenter tamen et secreto paulatim extendenda, neque dubium quin tunc
aurea sæcula et pax continua ac universalis, et consequenter benedictio
divina ecclesiam comitaretur.

VIII. Quod si spes non affulgeat ad hæc perveniendi, cum equidem
necesse sit ut veniant scandala, pro tempore invertendus erit status
politicus, et incitandi principes nostris familiariter utentes ad bella
mutua et importuna; ut sic ubique societas imploretur ac impendatur
reconciliationi publicæ, ut communis boni auctrix, et primariis
beneficiis et dignitatibus ecclesiasticis compensetur.

IX. Denique hoc saltem conabitur societatis efficere, acquisita principum
gratia et auctoritate, ut ab iis à quibus non amatur, saltem timeatur.




CHAP. XVII.

    _Of the method of advancing the interest of the society._


I. On this subject, it should be the grand effort of all, to be always
uniform in sentiment, or at least, to declare to others that they are so,
even in relation to the smallest matter, from whence it must necessarily
be, no matter how great the disturbance of human affairs, that the
society shall be continually increased and strengthened.

II. Let all so endeavour to shine, by their learning and their conduct,
that other orders, and especially such members of them as preach, are
pastors, &c., may be so eclipsed, that at length the common people may
desire that we exclusively, should perform all offices; let it be openly
taught, however, that learning alone is not sufficient for pastors, but
they must be well grounded in their peculiar duties, for the society can
help them with counsel, which for that very reason, sets so great a value
on its acquirements.

III. Kings and princes ought to be impressed with the truth that
under present circumstances, the Catholic faith cannot exist without
politism—but this demands great discretion; for which purpose our members
must have rendered themselves acceptable to the great, and acquainted
with their most secret purposes.

IV. They should have the advantage of the most recent, important, and
certain information, from every quarter.

V. It would be advantageous, if we could cautiously and secretly foment
dissentions amongst nobles and princes, even to the mutual wasting of
their strength; but if they seem likely to be reconciled, the society
should immediately endeavor to pacify them, lest it should be effected by
some other intervention.

VI. The opinion that the society was produced by a remarkable
interposition of divine providence, for the restoration of the church,
depressed by heretics, according to the revelation of the abbot
JOACHIM, ought to be sedulously inculcated, on the great, as well as the
common people.

VII. As soon as the favor of distinguished men and bishops is
conciliated, let our members secure the cases and canonries, for the
complete reformation of the clergy, who once lived under certain
regulations with their respective bishops, and advanced toward
perfection; then they should aspire to abbacies and prelacies,
which, if we consider the sloth and stupidity of the monks, might be
easily obtained when they become vacant: for it would be exceedingly
advantageous to the church for all the bishopricks to be held by the
society, indeed for it to possess the apostolic see; especially when
his holiness once more becomes a great temporal prince: wherefore let
every method be used, prudently and secretly by degrees, to enlarge the
temporalities of the society, as there can be no doubt, but that the
golden age of constant and universal peace would then abide, and with it,
the divine blessing, upon the church.

VIII. But when the hope of attaining to this state may not be bright,
and inasmuch as offences needs must come, we must temporarily change
our policy, and excite princes whose friendship we enjoy, to mutual and
fierce contests; in order that the society may be solicited and employed
every where for the general pacification, and then as the constant author
of good, be compensated with the principal benefices and ecclesiastical
dignities.

IX. In fine, let the society, by acquiring the favors and authority of
princes, endeavor at least to effect this,—that all shall fear, who will
not love us.




Transcriber’s Note


Corrections to punctuation and capitalisation are not noted. List of
substantive changes made to the text (chapter, paragraph):


LATIN

Præfatio, “illaqua” changed to “illaque” (illaque non nisi)

Præfatio, “secietas” changed to “societas” (ab initio cavit societas)

Præfatio, “hæe” changed to “hæc” (hæc monita deveniant)

Præfatio, “cofirmando” changed to “confirmando” (idque per illos
confirmando)

Præfatio, “opponant urque” changed to “opponanturque” (opponanturque his
monita nostra generalia)

I, title, “alicujos” changed to “alicujus” (alicujus loci Fundationem)

I, I, “Societatam” changed to “Societatem” (ubi dicitur Societatem)

I, I, “iuvisendi” changed to “invisendi” (et incarcerati invisendi)

I, I, “excipiendœ” changed to “excipiendæ” (et generatim excipiendæ)

I, IV, “euendem” changed to “eundem” twice (eundem videantur ... eundem
modum)

I, VII, “pretinm” changed to “pretium” (Summum pretium)

II, VI, “Austræ” changed to “Austria” (in domo Austria)

II, VI, “Poliniæ” changed to “Poloniæ” (Galliæ, Poloniæ, &c.)

II, VII, “quæa” changed to “quæ a” (quæ a cubiculis sunt)

II, VIII, “concientiis” changed to “conscientiis” (conscientiis magnatum
regendis)

III, IV, “seperioribus” changed to “superioribus” (et aliis superioribus
ecclesiasticis)

III, V, “monarchis” changed to “monachis” (et monachis non expectandum)

III, VIII, “concionatoriœ” changed to “concionatoriæ” (primariæ cathedræ
concionatoriæ)

III, IX, “quibusapud sedema pototicam” changed to “quibus apud sedem
apostolicam” (in quibus apud sedem apostolicam negotium promoveatur)

III, X, “out” changed to “aut” (aut magnates legationem obire)

IV, I, “virosqne” changed to “virosque” (Nostri principes, virosque
illustres)

IV, V, “commenden” changed to “commendent” (sed commendent necessitatem)

IV, V, “at” changed to “et” (provinciæ et collegii)

IV, V, “domicubiculo” changed to “domi cubiculo” (at collegii, domi
cubiculo)

IV, V, “instrucn” changed to “instructo” (simpliciter instructo gaudeant)

IV, V, “quœ” changed to “quæ” (quæ in palatio sunt)

IV, V, “prœsto” changed to “præsto” (magnatibus præsto esse videantur)

IV, VI, “susipcione” changed to “suspicione” (et suspicione se eximant)

IV, VI, “iut” changed to “uti” (uti supradictum est)

V, I, “liquo” changed to “aliquo” (religiones in aliquo excellant)

V, III, “institure” changed to “instituere” (docenda instituere volunt)

V, III, “quœ” changed to “quæ” (quæ ab ipsismet pueris)

V, V, duplicated phrase “magnatibus ac” removed (scholasticis, magnatibus
ac magistratibus)

VI, I, “œtatis” changed to “ætatis” (opus patres provectæ ætatis)

VI, I, “prœsertim” changed to “præsertim” (dirigantur præsertim in ordine)

VI, II, “quam vis” changed to “quamvis” (quamvis sacellanum habeant)

VI, II, “præcique” changed to “præcipue” (celebratione missæ et præcipue)

VI, VI, “pnæitentiæ” changed to “pænitentiæ” (præsertim pænitentiæ in quo)

VI, VI, “tentiones” changed to “tentationes” (sensa et tentationes)

VI, VI, “conscientæ” changed to “conscientiæ” (quotidianum examen
conscientiæ)

VI, X, “cofessarius” changed to “confessarius” (prospiciatque
confessarius)

VI, X, “consanguiniee” changed to “consanguineis” (cum consanguineis et
affinibus prohibendæ)

VI, XI, “praœsertim” changed to “præsertim” (opera præsertim eleemosynas)

VI, XI, “prœstabit” changed to “præstabit” (nulla ratione præstabit)

VII, title, “conservandoe riduæ” changed to “conservandæ viduæ” (Quomodo
conservandæ viduæ, et)

VII, title, “quœ” changed to “quæ” (de bonis quæ habent)

VII, II, “prœter” changed to “præter” (si præter communem affectum)

VII, II, “nostran” changed to “nostram” (societatem nostram)

VII, III, “imiserint” changed to “emiserint” (Si emiserint votum)

VII, V, “rigidœ” changed to “rigide” (nimis rigide in confessione)

VII, V, “morosœ” changed to “morosæ” (ne morosæ nimis fiant)

VII, XI, “omnio” changed to “omnino” (omnino sine murmuratione)

VII, XIII, “apeoque” changed to “adeoque” (adeoque sine spuma)

VII, XIII, “vivi” changed to “vivit” (et fecibus vivit)

VII, XIII, “monarchi” changed to “monachi” (quibus scatent monachi)

VII, XIV, “damorum” changed to “domorum” (collegiorum et domorum
professarum)

VII, XIV, “præcique” changed to “præcipue” (præcipue domus professæ)

VII, XV, “vito” changed to “vita” (Quod si in vita)

VII, XV, “peridaculo ... funtorum” changed to “periculo ... fundatorum”

VII, XVI, “principipibus” changed to “principibus” (cum principibus, et
benefactoribus)

VII, XVI, “incuam” changed to “inquam” (persuadendum, inquam, ea quæ)

VII, XVII, “summan” changed to “summam” (summam perfectionem in eo)

VIII, I, “cleonidas” changed to “clenodias” (ornatum et clenodias illis
negent)

VIII, I, “ipsæment” changed to “ipsæmet” (quas ipsæmet in particulari)

VIII, I, “vitœ” changed to “vitæ” (tædio vitæ apud matrem)

VIII, IV, “vita” changed to “vitæ” (ut tædio vitæ afficiantur)

IX, I, “prætur” changed to “præter” (ut præter largitiones)

IX, I, “fidelum” changed to “fidelium” (quotidianos fidelium, careant)

IX, II, “spirituallia” changed to “spiritualia” (ad exercitia spiritualia
sunt alliciendi)

IX, III, “tanem” changed to “tamen” (suos (opportune tamen) de)

IX, III, “confessorio invientur” changed to “confessario invitentur”
(honeste ab eodem confessario invitentur)

IX, III, “sodolitatem” changed to “sodalitatem” (si vir ad sodalitatem
frequentandam)

IX, IV, “acquirent” changed to “acquiret” (ex asse hæreditatem acquiret)

IX, V, “contiuuo” changed to “continuo” (sit, continuo rectorem moneat)

IX, VII, “couducta” changed to “conducta” (per pactum aliquod conducta)

IX, VII, “debitarum” changed to “debitorum” (et gravamen debitorum)

IX, XI, “prœsertim” changed to “præsertim” (tempore morbi præsertim
periculosi)

IX, XV, “roligiosos” changed to “religiosos” (alios religiosos et
ecclesiasticos)

IX, XV, “demonstandumque” changed to “demonstrandumque” (ad minimum
purgatorium, demonstrandumque)

X, I, “be” changed to “de” (quo de bonis propriis)

X, I, “maximan” changed to “maximam” (aversionem maximam habere)

X, II, “dicanturqne” changed to “dicanturque” (bonis, dicanturque esse)

XI, II, “moveantur” changed to “moneantur” (deinde moneantur alii)

XI, V, “cæperint” changed to “cœperint” (aut fidei sibi conciliare
cœperint)

XI, V, “par” changed to “per” (modo per probabilem)

XI, VII, “prælatos” changed to “prælati” (magnates vel prælati)

XI, VII, “reprehensioen” changed to “reprehensione” (si nihil committant
reprehensione dignum)

XII, I, “stenui operaii” changed to “strenui operarii” (debent strenui
operarii, qui scilicet)

XII, V, “iorte” changed to “forte” (ne forte fortuna)

XIII, title, “retineudi” changed to “retinendi” (et modo retinendi)

XIII, III, “ab” changed to “ad” (etiam ad villas)

XIII, III, “familtaritas” changed to “familiaritas” (ne familiaritas
pariat contemptum)

XIII, IV, “cumaliis” changed to “cum aliis” (à præceptoribus cum aliis
discipulis)

XIII, VII, “quamdui” changed to “quamdiu” (quamdiu constantes manent)

XIII, IX, “novitatis” changed to “novitiatus” (si tempore novitiatus, aut)

XIII, XI, “Poloniæ” changed to “Polonis” (quæ in _Germanis_ et _Polonis_)

XIII, XIII, “exceltia” changed to “excellentia” (ostendatur excellentia
instituti societatis)

XIV, IV, “it a” changed to “ita” (qui detinetur ita mortificetur)

XIV, IV, “affigatur” changed to “affligatur” (et undequaque affligatur)

XIV, VI, “apt” changed to “aut” (qui aut superioribus palam insurgunt)

XIV, VII, “præstitarint” changed to “præstiterint” (bene præstiterint)

XIV, VIII, “alteram” changed to “alterum” (cogatur alterum emittere)

XV, I, “potissimun” changed to “potissimum” (sed contra affectu
potissimum superiorum)

XV, II, “monastcria” changed to “monasteria” (ne monasteria fæminarum
frequentent)

XVI, I, “seculares” changed to “sæculares” (Ne sæculares nobis)

XVI, I, “præstatis” changed to “præstitis” (societate præstitis
offeruntur)

XVI, II, “nea” changed to “ne” (ne videamur pluralitate)

XVI, III, “societaii” changed to “societati” (quæ societati pleraque)

XVII, VI, “ecclæsia” changed to “ecclesia” (ecclesia depressa)

XVII, VII, “ignaoia” changed to “ignavia” (ignavia ac stupiditate)

XVII, VII, “uon” changed to “non” (non erit difficile)

XVII, VII, “prudentur” changed to “prudenter” (prudenter tamen et
secreto)


ENGLISH

Discourse, III, “loeis” changed to “locis” (in suis locis annotatæ)

Discourse, III, “posession” changed to “possession” (took possession of
the Jesuit College)

Discourse, III, duplicate word “as” removed (in 1746. This, as well)

Discourse, III, “concuring” changed to “concurring” (various and
concurring evidence)

Discourse, IV, “Venitian” changed to “Venetian” (This Venetian Jesuit
about 1596)

Discourse, IV, “Papile” changed to “Papale” (Defence of the Bellum
Papale)

Discourse, IV, “controled” changed to “controlled” (controlled this
fearful and diabolical corporation)

Discourse, V, “occured” changed to “occurred” (occurred within less than
sixty years)

Discourse, VII, “where” changed to “were” (If history were less replete)

II, XIV, “thy” changed to “they” (they will always bear)

III, VII, “appoited” changed to “appointed” (be appointed _curate_)

VI, VI, “right” changed to “rite” (the sacred rite of confession)

VII, XVII, duplicate word “to” removed (to the adorning of churches)

VII, XVIII, “well” changed to “will” (we will see)

IX, III, “feely” changed to “freely” (to come freely to the confessional)

XI, V, “soeiety” changed to “society” (bound to the society)

XIV, II, “he” changed to “be” (shall not be absolved)

XVI, II, “Sepulcre” changed to “Sepulchre” (Sepulchre in our churches)

XVII, VII, “concilliated” changed to “conciliated” (is conciliated, let
our members)





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Secreta Monita Societatis Jesu. The
Secret Counsels of the Society of J, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SECRETA MONITA SOCIETATIS JESU ***

***** This file should be named 59382-0.txt or 59382-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/3/8/59382/

Produced by MFR and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

